Neo and SuperNeo: Post-quantum folding with
pay-per-bit costs over small fields
Wilson Nguyen
Stanford University, New York University,
and Microsoft Research
Srinath Setty
Microsoft Research
Abstract. We construct the first folding scheme that simultaneously
achieves six desirable properties: plausible post-quantum security, pay-per-
bit commitment costs, field-native arithmetic (the sum-check and norm
checks run purely over a small field), support for general (non-SIMD) con-
straint systems, small-field support (e.g., Goldilocks), and low recursion
overheads. No existing scheme satisfies all six: group-based schemes (e.g.,
HyperNova) lack post-quantum security and are tied to large elliptic-
curve fields; lattice-based schemes (e.g., LatticeFold) require expensive
ring arithmetic, lose pay-per-bit costs, and impose SIMD constraints; and
hash-based schemes (e.g., Arc) incur large verifier circuits.
We present two lattice-based folding schemes for CCS—an NP-complete
relation generalizing R1CS, Plonkish, and AIR—called Neo and SuperNeo.
Neo satisfies five of the six properties but requires SIMD constraint
systems; SuperNeo removes this restriction and satisfies all six. Both run
a single invocation of the sum-check protocol over a small field extension
and achieve pay-per-bit costs via new folding-friendly instantiations of
Ajtai commitments under the Module-SIS assumption. At the core of our
constructions are two new norm-preserving embeddings of field vectors
into ring vectors that respect an evaluation homomorphism required
for folding. We also introduceinteractive reductions, a framework that
generalizes reductions of knowledge and enables modular security proofs
for composed lattice-based protocols.
1 Introduction
A folding scheme [57] is a cryptographic primitive that reduces the task of
checking that two instance-witness pairs are in some NP relation to the task of
checking that a single instance-witness pair is in the same relation. As an example,
for a circuit C and two public inputs (i.e., instances) x1 and x2, a folding scheme
reduces the task of checking that there exist witnesses w1 and w2 such that
C(w1, x1) = 1 and C(w2, x2) = 1 to the task of checking that there exists a single
witness w for a specific public input x such that C(w, x) = 1. Furthermore, the
verifier’s work in a folding scheme is limited to roughly taking the weighted sum
of the commitments to the underlying witnesses. By using a folding scheme in
a recursive manner, one can continually fold many instance-witness pairs into
a single instance-witness pair, providing powerful recursive succinct argument
primitives such as incrementally verifiable computation (IVC) [82] and proof-
carrying data (PCD) [13].

Importance of folding schemes: prover efficiency and efficient recursion.A modern
approach to construct SNARKs [47,66] is to combine a polynomial interactive
oracle proof (PIOP) [23,30,78] with a polynomial commitment scheme (PCS) [46].
However, this yields a “monolithic” SNARK whose prover must prove a fixed-sized
computation at once. To scale to larger computations, one typically breaks the
computation into smaller pieces and uses SNARK recursion (a la IVC or PCD)
to produce a succinct argument [11]. Folding schemes provide a more direct and
efficient alternative: they allow recursion to operate at the “statement” level (i.e.,
prior to producing a PIOP or a PCS evaluation argument), yielding two concrete
benefits. First, recursion overheads are far lower: with Nova [57], folding a proof
takes only ≈10,000 R1CS constraints, whereas traditional SNARK recursion
takes millions [29,31]. Second, the prover incurs far less work by avoiding a full
PIOP and PCS evaluation argument: in monolithic SNARKs such as Marlin [30],
the prover performs at least 20× higher work over simply committing to a witness,
whereas with state-of-the-art folding schemes [20,35,55,56], the prover’s work is
dominated by the cost to commit to a witness. This results in at least an order of
magnitude speedup over monolithic SNARKs, and up to two orders of magnitude
when the witness contains values from a small subset of the entire field. 1
A motivating application: post-quantum signature aggregation.Ethereum’s con-
sensus layer relies on BLS signatures [18], which offer efficient aggregation: a
single pairing check suffices for hundreds of thousands of validator attestations.
However, BLS signatures are not post-quantum secure. Ethereum’s planned
transition to a post-quantum scheme (e.g., the hash-based XMSS [44]) reintro-
duces the scalability challenge, since such schemes lack the algebraic structure
of BLS and their signatures are large and expensive to verify individually. A
natural solution is to use recursive SNARKs to aggregate these signatures [34]
in a distributed manner (a la proof-carrying data). Folding schemes are well
suited here: each signature can be folded into the aggregate proof, yielding sig-
nificantly lower latency and prover cost at each recursive step than traditional
SNARK recursion—a critical advantage when up to a million signatures must be
aggregated within time-sensitive slots of a consensus protocol.
Realizing this approach requires a folding scheme that is both efficientand
plausibly post-quantum secure. More broadly, what properties should a practical
folding scheme satisfy?
1.1 Six desiderata for a practical folding scheme
State-of-the-art folding schemes [20, 35, 53–57] have converged on an efficient
“recipe”: the prover commits to a witness with a linearly homomorphic scheme
1 If the witness contains “small” field elements (e.g., from the set{0,1, . . . ,2 32 −1}),
state-of-the-art folding schemes perform more than two orders of magnitude less work
than a monolithic SNARK prover such as Marlin [30]. Proof systems such as Spartan
and variants [78,79] incur lower overheads than Marlin, but they must still produce
a PIOP and PCS evaluation argument.
2

(Pedersen or KZG) and employs sum-check-type techniques [62]. For instance, the
prover in HyperNova [55] performs asinglemulti-scalar multiplication (MSM)
to commit to its witness, with costs that scale with the bit-width of witness
values (“pay-per-bit”). However, these schemes are not post-quantum secure and
are tied to ≈256-bit elliptic-curve fields. Below, we distill six properties that a
practical folding scheme should satisfy.
D1: Post-quantum security.The scheme should be plausibly secure against
quantum adversaries. Group-based folding schemes [20, 35, 55 –57] rely on the
hardness of the discrete logarithm problem, which Shor’s algorithm [80] can
efficiently solve on a quantum computer.
D2: Pay-per-bit commitment costs.The cost to commit to a witness should
scale with the bit-width of the witness values: for example, committing to a
vector of b-bit values should be roughly b times cheaper than committing to
values that span the full field. Group-based schemes achieve this via Pedersen
or KZG commitments. LatticeFold, however, relies on the NTT embedding to
map field vectors into ring vectors. Because the NTT is not a norm-preserving
map, the resulting ring vectors have arbitrary norm regardless of the bit-width
of the original witness elements. Since the Ajtai commitment scheme requires
decomposing these arbitrary-norm ring elements for binding, the commitment
cost is the same whether the original values are 1-bit or 64-bit. Hash-based
schemes (e.g., Arc [24]) also lack this property, since their commitment costs are
determined by the code rate and security parameter, not by witness bit-widths.
D3: Field-native arithmetic.Besides committing to the witness, the prover’s and
the verifier’s work—in particular, the norm check and the sum-check protocol—
should operate natively over a prime field (or extension field), without performing
expensive polynomial ring arithmetic. Group-based and hash-based schemes
satisfy this property. LatticeFold [14], however, runs the sum-check protocol over
a cyclotomic polynomial ring rather than over a prime field (or extension field);
ring operations are 10–100×more expensive than field operations. 2
D4: General constraint systems.The scheme should support general NP-complete
constraint systems such as CCS [79] over a single witness vector, without requiring
the constraint system to be “data parallel” (SIMD). Group-based and hash-based
schemes satisfy this. LatticeFold, by contrast, packs a batch of independent con-
straints defined over a small prime field into a single constraint over a cyclotomic
polynomial ring [14, Remark 4.1], imposing a SIMD requirement. Lova [37] avoids
this issue but at the cost of only supporting the subset sum relation, not CCS.
D5: Small-field support.The scheme should work natively over small prime
fields, including popular SNARK-friendly fields such as Goldilocks. By “small”
2 Benchmarks report that a polynomial ring multiplication costs ≈213 ns [67], whereas
a field multiplication with M61 costs a fraction of a nanosecond.
3

we mean fields whose modulus q fits within a machine register—for example, M61
(q = 261 −1) or Goldilocks (q = 264 −232 +1). Small-field support is important for
two reasons: such fields offer arithmetic that is an order of magnitude faster than
256-bit arithmetic, and SNARK-friendly fields enable efficient proof compression
using existing SNARKs (e.g., Spartan with a FRI-based polynomial commitment
scheme). Group-based schemes are tied to the scalar fields of elliptic curves, which
are ≈256 bits for security. LatticeFold’s cyclotomic rings of the form X d +1 (with
d a power of 2) cause popular fields like Goldilocks to fully split the ring, ruining
security [14,§3.3]; furthermore, supporting small fields requires a non-trivial
extension field degree t|d , introducing a t× multiplicative overhead in the
protocols due to the need fort-parallel repetition [14,§3.3,§5].
D6: Low recursion overheads.The recursive verifier circuit should be small
enough that the per-step prover cost of IVC remains practical. Group-based
schemes achieve this: Nova’s and NeutronNova’s verifier circuits are constant-sized:
≈10,000 R1CS constraints. Hash-based schemes suffer from large verifier circuits;
for example, Arc [24] requires 2 ·λ/log (1/ρ) Merkle tree openings, translating to
≈1,600,000 R1CS constraints at λ= 128 and ρ= 1/2 with Poseidon [43]. Prior
to this, B¨ unz et al. [25] provide a different hash-based scheme with even worse
verifier circuit overheads [24, Table 1], and only provides “bounded depth” IVC.
Lova also incurs extreme overheads, reporting a prover time of ≈3,000 seconds for
a subset sum instance of length 2 19 [37, Table 2], compared to 500 ms for Nova
on an R1CS instance of the same size. More broadly, folding schemes that rely on
ring sum-check techniques—such as LatticeFold [14] and SALSAA [59]—inherit
high recursion overheads because the recursive verifier must hash ring elements
rather than field elements. For example, a single ring element in LatticeFold
occupies 64 ×64 = 4,096 bytes, compared to 32 bytes for a 256-bit field element in
HyperNova, resulting in 128× more data for the verifier circuit to hash. Achieving
constant verifier circuit size like Nova or NeutronNova in the lattice setting is
difficult and remains an open problem. Our goal is to achieve logarithmic recursion
overhead (with similar constants) analogous to HyperNova.
Research question. Can we build a folding scheme that satisfies all six desiderata—
in particular, one that is post-quantum secure, works natively over small prime
fields, and matches the efficiency of state-of-the-art group-based schemes?
Figure 1 summarizes the landscape. No existing folding scheme satisfies all six
desiderata. Group-based schemes meet D2–D4 and D6 but fail D1 and D5. Hash-
based schemes achieve D1 but sacrifice D2 and D6. LatticeFold, LatticeFold+, and
SALSAA each achieve D1 but fail D2–D4 and D6; LatticeFold and LatticeFold+
additionally fail D5. Neo satisfies D1–D3, D5, and D6, but requires SIMD
constraint systems (D4). SuperNeo is the first scheme to satisfy all six.
1.2 Our work: Neo and SuperNeo
We present Neo and SuperNeo, the first folding schemes to satisfy all six desiderata
(Figure 1). Our constructions are lattice analogs of HyperNova [55]: the prover
4

D1 D2 D3 D4 D5 D6
Group-based
HyperNova [55]✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓
NeutronNova [56]✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓
Hash-based
Arc [24]✓ ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✗
Lattice-based
LatticeFold [14]✓ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
Lova [37]✓ ✗ ✓ ✗ ✓ ✗
Neo(this work)✓ ✓ ✓ ✗ † ✓ ✓
LatticeFold+ [16]✓ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗
SALSAA [59]✓ ✗ ✗ ✗ ✓ ✗
SuperNeo(this work)✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
†Neo requires a SIMD constraint system (D4) and is subsumed by SuperNeo, which
removes this requirement. The table lists schemes in the order they appeared; we
present Neo and SuperNeo separately because Neo was independently preprinted and
several subsequent works build on it, so separating the two simplifies attributing
techniques to the correct scheme.
Fig. 1: Comparison of folding schemes against the six desiderata. ✓ = satisfied,
✗= not satisfied. See Section 1.1 for definitions.
commits to a CCS [79] witness using a lattice-based commitment scheme with
pay-per-bit costs, runs a single invocation of the sum-check protocol over an
extension of a small prime field 3, and achieves plausible post-quantum security
under a standard structured lattice assumption (Module-SIS). Both schemes also
provide multi-folding, which folds multiple CCS instances at once, amortizing
the decomposition costs required to manage lattice norm growth. By applying
standard compilers from folding schemes to IVC [55, 57] and PCD [85], we
obtain a plausibly post-quantum IVC/PCD scheme. Since our constructions
natively support SNARK-friendly fields like Goldilocks, they enable efficient proof
compression using Spartan [78, 79] with a FRI-based polynomial commitment
scheme [10]—without requiring any non-native arithmetic or field emulation.
The key technical challenge isembeddingfield vectors (CCS witnesses) into the
ring vectors that Ajtai commitments operate over, while preserving the algebraic
structure—norm bounds, evaluation homomorphisms—that a sum-check-based
folding scheme like HyperNova requires. We introduce two new norm-preserving
embeddings (theNeoandSuperNeo embeddings) that resolve this challenge,
and a new security framework (interactive reductions) that enables modular
proofs of knowledge soundness for lattice-based protocols. We detail the problems
with prior approaches and our solutions in the following sections.
3 When using a 64-bit field, a degree-2 extension is sufficient for 128 bits of security.
5

1.2.1 Challenges and prior solutionsAchieving desiderata D2–D4 and D6
for a lattice-based folding scheme requires solving a common problem: how to
embed field vectors into the ring vectors that Ajtai commitments [2] operate
over. Any such embedding must support protocols that check both the norm of
the committed ring vectors and CCS constraints on the underlying field vectors.
Below, we describe the Ajtai commitment scheme and the challenges that prior
solutions leave open.
Ajtai Commitment Scheme [2,75] (Informal) 4
–Setup (1κ, n∈N ) →A∈ Rκ×n
F , where A is a random matrix over the
polynomial ring R F := F [X]/(ϕ(X)) with modulus ϕ(X) being a cyclotomic
polynomial of degreed.
–Commit (A,z∈ Rn
F ) →c , where c := A·z∈ Rκ
F is a binding commitment to
messagezif the norm∥z∥ ∞ < bis small enough.
Problem 1: Inefficient constraint checking & lack of algebraically
friendly embeddingsPrior work on lattice-based folding schemes [15] re-
lied on the Number Theoretic Transform (NTT) [5, 61, 75, 77] to embed field
vectors into ring vectors. The Number Theoretic Transform is a ring isomorphism
between the ring R F and a product space of extension fields F d/t
qt , so each ring
operation naturally simulates a Single Instruction, Multiple Data (SIMD) [40,41]
operation over the underlying (d/t)-tuple of field elements. For· ∈ {+,×},
(a1, . . . , ad/t)∈F d/t
qt a∈R F
(a1 ·b 1, . . . , ad/t ·b d/t)∈F d/t
qt a·b∈R F
·(b1, . . . , bd/t) ·b
NTT
iNTT
NTT
iNTT
Hence, d/t field vectors z(1), . . . , z(d/t) ∈F n can be embedded into a single ring
vector z∈ Rn
F . By adapting a technique from [19], prior work Latticefold [15, Sec
3.3] showed how to express the norm constraint on a ring vector z as Hadamard
product constraints Q
i<b(ˆzj −i ) = 0 over related ring vectors ˆz1, . . . , ˆzt whose
underlying embedded field vectors are the coefficient vectors of the committed
ring vector z. Since the NTT transformation is a ring isomorphism, they also
showed that field constraints (like CCS) over the embedded field vectors could
be checked as ring constraints over the committed ring vector z itself. To check
both the Hadamard and CCS constraints on these ring vectors, Latticefold relies
on the celebrated sum-check protocol [62] to reduce checking these constraints
to checking random multilinear evaluations of the ring vectors themselves. The
main downside of this approach is that the prover and verifier have to execute
the sum-check protocol over the ring itself rather than just the underlying field
4 To streamline our exposition, we directly discuss the more efficient variant of Ajtai
commitments based Module Short-Integer-Solution (M-SIS), because they serve as
the basis of most lattice-based proof systems [12,15,16,19,69,75].
6

for which the original CCS constraints are defined over. As such both parties
must perform ring operations, which are significantly more expensive than field
operations as they must either directly compute or simulate (via NTT) the
degree-d polynomial arithmetic. Furthermore, the NTT transformation itself
(required for these checks) adds a significant overhead to the prover runtime;
as such, lattice-based proof systems attempt to minimize the number of NTT
transformations required [12,69].
Achieving D3 (field-native arithmetic) and D6 (low recursion overheads)
requires checking the norm and CCS constraints byonly performing a sum-
check over the field, avoiding all ring operations during the sum-check protocol.
Moreover, since our goal is to construct a folding scheme, the embedding must
respect anevaluation homomorphismso that the resulting field multilinear
polynomial evaluations can be folded together.
Problem 2: Lack of packing efficiency & Pay-per-bit cost & SIMD
Lattice-based proof systems targeting field constraints (such as CCS) must rely
on some embedding of field vectors into ring vectors to be able to commit to
these field vectors with Ajtai commitments. Hence, packing efficiency (the density
of field elements embedded into ring vectors) is a crucial metric for the efficiency
of these proof systems. In particular, the highest packing efficiency possible
(information-theoretically) for a ring vector of length n is d·n field elements.
Unfortunately, the most algebraically friendly embedding, the NTT transform,
has only a packing efficiency of ( d/t) ·n field elements for a ring vector z of
length n. For ideal choices of parameterization [15], t is often a non-trivial factor
of d such as t = 4 for d = 64. Moreover, regardless of the norm of the original
field vectors, the NTT embedding results in a ring vector z which has arbitrary
norm. Hence, to utilize the Ajtai commitment scheme, the vector z∈ Rn
F must
be expanded into a larger ring vector z′ ∈ Rlogb(|F|)·n
F ; this further reduces the
packing efficiency by a factor of log b(|F|), regardless of the original norm of the
embedded vectors. Furthermore, when using the NTT embedding, the cost to
commitment to these field elements does not scale with their bit size; Pedersen-
style commitments [46, 72, 84] for field vectors have this pay-per-bit cost. Finally,
the NTT embedding requires that t separate field vectors be embedded into a
single ring vector to reach its peak packing efficiency; however, this inherently
requires that the underlying proof system to use a SIMD constraint system (such
as CCS over multiple field vectors simultaneously). SIMD constraint systems
are not well-suited for applications where the constraints cannot be neatly split
into independent, smaller systems. In particular, the ideal constraint system
would be over a single field vector of length d·n ; rather than t independent
constraint systems over the t separate field vectors of length n (since the prior
can immediately simulate the later, and use a larger constraint system).
Achieving D2 (pay-per-bit) and D4 (general constraints) thus requires an
algebraically friendlyembedding withoptimal packing efficiencyof d·n field
elements for a ring vector of length n, with apay-per-bitcommitment cost,
and without the requirement for a SIMD constraint system.
7

Problem 3: Complex security proofs lacking modular analysisIn the
literature of lattice-based proof systems [12,15,16,26,33,42,64], there are often
protocols Π which have a particular form and whose security proofs are complex
and non-modular. In particular, the prover and verifier take in as input some
commitments to witnesses along with some property that needs to be checked
on the underlying committed witnesses (such as norm or CCS constraints). We
identify that these protocols Π can be broken down into two stages Π property and
Πspecial. The first stage Π property is often some sound testing protocol (such as
sum-check or random projections) run on the underlying committed witnesses,
which produce additional algebraic claims (such as multilinear evaluations or
random inner products) on the witnesses. The second stage Π special is often a
special-sound protocol [1,7,8,33,39] which takes (informally) a random linear
combination of the original commitments and of the algebraic claims produced
by Πproperty; this results in a new commitment and a new algebraic claim on the
underlying witness. These stages seem to mirror the structure of a reduction
of knowledge [51], where proving the composed protocol Π := Π special ◦ Πproperty
is secure requires proving that both Π property and Π special are knowledge-sound.
Unfortunately, this is not the case; in particular, the individual stages Π property
and Πspecial do not meet the strict definition of a reduction of knowledge. As such,
the security analysis of these protocols Π is often done in an ad-hoc manner,
where the security proof directly analyzes the composed protocol Π as a whole
(often leading to complex, non-blackbox security arguments).
A separate challenge isgeneralizing the framework of reductions of
knowledgeto capture these individual stages Π property and Πspecial—in particu-
lar, identifying what core properties each stage must satisfy—such thattheir
compositionΠis provably secure(knowledge-sound).
1.2.2 Contributions of our workSince our work subsumes and extends the
prior work Neo, we will discuss both the contributions of the original Neo work
and our extension SuperNeo together.
Contribution 1: Neo and SuperNeo Embeddings
Can we check the norm and CCS constraints by only performing a sum-check
over the field?
To answer this question, we can ask why the prior NTT-based approach required
ring operations in the sum-check protocol in the first place. The main reason is
that the NTT transform simply does not preserve enough structure between the
underlying field vectors and the committed ring vector to meaningfully check
both the norm and CCS constraints by only relying on field constraints (which
can be checked solely with a sum-check over the field). Since the NTT transform
is not a norm-preserving map, the norm of the underlying field vectors does not
directly correspond to the norm of the associated ring vector in which they are
embedded. Hence, checking the norm of the ring vector cannot be done by simply
applying constraints over the underlying field vectors. More broadly, checking any
non-trivial constraints purely over the underlying field vector do not correspond
8

with constraints over the coefficient vectors of the ring vector itself, and vice versa.
Hence, the technique from [19] is required to reduce the norm constraints to ring
constraints and the isomorphic property of the NTT map is required to reduce
the underlying field CCS constraints to ring constraints. Now that both the norm
and CCS constraints are reduced to ring constraints, the sum-check protocol has
to be executed over the ring itself. We resolve this issue by introducing theNeo
embedding, a map which directly embeds field vectors z(1), . . . , z(d) ∈F n along
the coefficients slots of the committed ring vectorz∈R n
F = (z1, . . . ,zn).
Coeff(z) =


z(1)
z(2)
...
z(d)


=


z1 z2 · · · zn


Since the coefficient vectors coincide exactly with the underlying field vectors,
the Neo embedding is a norm-preserving map; checking the norm of the ring
vector can be done purely with field constraints over the underlying vectors
z(1), . . . , z(d) ∈F n. Moreover, the field CCS constraints can immediately be
checked over the underlying field vectors themselves. As a result, the sum-check
protocol can be executed purely over the field, and no ring operations are required.
The sum-check protocol reduces these norm and CCS constraints down to checking
random multilinear evaluations of the underlying field vectors; for example,
y = M z∼ (r) for some CCS matrix M∈F m×n. Explicitly, an evaluation claim
has the following form: Consider a committed ring vector z (with commitment
c = Az), do the underlying field vectors z(1), . . . , z(d) evaluate to some claimed
values y(1), . . . , y(d) at a random extension field point r? Since we are constructing
a folding scheme, our goal is to fold these evaluation claims together into a single
evaluation claim by taking a random linear combination of the commitments and
of the evaluation claims.
Does the Neo embedding respect anevaluation homomorphismsuch that we
can fold these evaluation claims together?
We prove that the Neo embedding does indeed exactly respect the type of
evaluation homomorphism required to fold these evaluation claims together.
Consider two committed ring vectors z and z′ (with commitments c = Az and
c′ = Az′) and their underlying field vectors z(1), . . . , z(d) and z′(1), . . . , z′(d) with
evaluations y(1), . . . , y(d) and y′(1), . . . , y′(d) at the same random extension field
point r. We simply embed the evaluations into ring elements y :=P
i y(i) ·X i−1
and y′ :=P
i y(i) ·X i−1 by placing the evaluations in the same coefficient slots
as the underlying field vectors. We show that taking the linear combination
z′′ := z + δ·z ′ (c′′ = c + δ·c ′) for any δ∈ RF results in a ring vector z′′ (c′′)
whose underlying field vectors z′′(1), . . . , z′′(d) evaluate to the coefficients of the
linear combination y′′ := y + δ·y ′. If the challenge δ is a ring element with
low-norm [3, 28], then the resulting vector z′′ will also have low norm and the
commitment c′′ will be a valid commitment to z′′. It is quite surprising that
9

this type of embedding would respect any sort of evaluation homomorphism
for multilinear evaluations over the underlying field vectors, given that the
commitment scheme and linear combination are defined over the ring. For the
NTT embedding, this type of evaluation homomorphism is trivial since the NTT
is a ring isomorphism, but for the Neo embedding over coefficients, this is not at
all clear. While this embedding is quite natural, it is quite non-trivial to show
that it also respects anevaluation homomorphism, which is required to batch
multilinear evaluations of the underlying field vectors together (a requirement
for folding schemes based on sum-check). Given two ring vectors and multilinear
evaluations of their underlying field vectors, why does taking a random linear
combination of these ring vectors over the ring result in a ring vector whose
underlying field vectors evaluate to the same random linear combination of the
original field evaluations? For the NTT embedding, this is trivial since the NTT
is a ring isomorphism, but for the Neo embedding over coefficients, this is not
at all clear. In a prior version of this work, we proved that the Neo embedding
respected this evaluation homomorphism with the fact that a ring multiplication
(and hence the random linear combination) is merely a linear map over the field;
in particular, a ring multiplication can be simulated by multiplying the coefficient
vector by the rotation matrix rot(δ) (or circulant matrix) associated with the
ring element δ. Because of this linearity, the ring linear combination must respect
the corresponding multilinear evaluations of the coefficients. However, we present
a much simpler interpretation and proof of the evaluation homomorphism by
identifying the base field F as merely the constant polynomials in the cyclotomic
ring RF := F [X]/(ϕ(X)) and identifying the ring RF itself as base field polynomials
in a larger ring R K := K[X]/(ϕ(X)) consisting of polynomials whose coefficients
belong to the extension fieldK.
RF ⊆R K
⊆
⊆
F⊆K
Hence, multilinear evaluations of the underlying field vectors and linear com-
binations of the committed ring vectors can all be expressed as linear maps
over the same larger ring K, and the evaluation homomorphism follows almost
immediately from this linearity. This embedding and evaluation homomorphism
has been used by several subsequent works 5, such as [16,26,68], and referred to
as atensor of ringsapproach [26] orring switching[68].
Is there an embedding that has optimal packing efficiency, a pay-per-bit
commitment cost, and does not require a SIMD constraint system?
If our goal is to commit to d field vectors of length n (SIMD constraint system),
then the Neo embedding has the optimal packing efficiency of d·n field elements
for a ring vector of lengthn. Furthermore, since the embedded field vectors are
directly placed in the coefficient slots, then the commitment costs scales with
5 We provide a more detailed comparison with related work in the following section.
10

the number of bits (we explain this in more detail in the technical overview).
Unfortunately, the Neo embedding requires a SIMD constraint system for both
efficiency and the evaluation homomorphism to hold; the same constraint system
must be applied to alldunderlying field vectors.
Thus, in this work, we also introduce theSuperNeo embedding, which is
a norm-preserving embedding for asinglefield vector of length d·n into a ring
vector of length n (which is d× shorter!) that satisfies all the desired properties
(optimal packing, pay-per-bit, not SIMD) and preserves the required evaluation
homomorphism. Given a field vector z∈F d·n, split the vector into n sub-vectors
of length d each, i.e., z = [z1, z2, . . . , zn] where each zi := [zi,1, . . . , zi,d] ∈F d. We
will embed each sub-vector zi as the coefficients of a single ring element zi :=P
j zi,jX j−1 ∈ RF . The resulting vector of ring elements z := [z1,z 2, . . . ,zn] ∈
Rn
F is the SuperNeo embedding ofz.
z=
 z1 z2 · · · zn

Coeff(z) =


z1 z2 · · · zn


The SuperNeo embedding is a norm-preserving map since the underlying field
vector z∈F dn is exactly the coefficients of the committed ring vector z∈ Rn
F .
Hence, checking both the norm and CCS constraints can be done purely with field
constraints over the underlying vector z∈F dn. As such, the sum-check protocol
can be executed purely over the field, resulting in evaluation claims of the form
y = M z∼ (r) for some CCS matrix M∈F m×dn. Now, it is unclear whether the
SuperNeo embedding respects the required evaluation homomorphism. Unlike
the Neo embedding evaluation claims, we only have single evaluations y, y′ ∈K
(instead of d); how can we embed these evaluations into ring elements y,y ′
such that taking a random linear combination of the committed ring vectors
z′′ := z + δ·z ′ ∈ Rn
F results in a ring vector whose underlying field vector
z′′ ∈F dn that evaluates to the embedded evaluation in y′′ := y + δ·y ′? As we
will see, arguing the evaluation homomorphism for the Neo embedding relies on
the fact that the underlying field vectors are directly placed in the coefficient
slots of the ring vector, but in the SuperNeo embedding we do not have this nice
parallel structure (taking a random linear combination over the ring permutes
and mixes the coefficients in a non-trivial way).
However, we show that there is indeed a corresponding choice of evaluation
embedding of y∈K into y∈ RK such that the evaluation homomorphism holds.
To do so, we adapt a technique from the lattice literature [12,36,64] called the
(Galois, conjugation, or inner product)automorphismtrick for cyclotomic rings.
In these works, the automorphism trickσ : RF → RF was used to check the norm of
ring vectors by simulating field vector inner products⟨a, b⟩ with ring multiplication
σ(a) ·b (which help with checking random projections [12] or products [64]). We
lift this automorphism trick to embed the CCS matrices M∈F m×dn into ring
11

matrices M∈ Rm×n
K such that the evaluation y = M z∼ (r) ∈K is the constant
term of y = M z∼ (r) ∈ RK. Then, we show that the evaluation homomorphism
follows from linearity (similar to the Neo embedding).
Contribution 2: Strong and Weak Interactive Reductions
Is there a natural meta-framework which captures common lattice-protocols
Πproperty andΠ special which independently are not secure, but prove their
compositionΠ := Π special ◦Π property is secure?
We introduce the notion ofinteractive reductions, which are a generalization of
reductions of knowledge introduced in [51]. In particular, an interactive reduction
shares the exact same API (structure) as a reduction of knowledge, but is
not required to be knowledge sound. In this way, we can view a reduction of
knowledge merely as a knowledge-sound interactive reduction. We introduce
two types of interactive reductions, which we callstrongΠ strong andweakΠ weak
interactive reductions, and prove a new composition theorem that the composition
Π := Π weak ◦ Πstrong of a strong interactive reduction with a weak interactive
reduction results in a reduction of knowledge Π. Thesestrongandweakproperties
are quite natural and easy to show for many protocols in the lattice-based proof
system literature [12,15,33,42,64], such as sum-check and random projections
for the strong property, and special-sound protocols for the weak property. As
such, this composition theorem provides a powerful tool to prove the security
of composed protocols Π in a simple and modular manner. To our knowledge,
this is the first work to show, quite unintuitively, that insecure protocols can be
composed together to yield an overall secure protocol. As we will see soon, these
properties are not restricted to lattice-based protocols, but are quite general
and capture protocols in group-based proof systems [27, 55, 56] and may capture
recent work in the hash-based proof systems [6,21,22,83].
On the topic of security proofs, we also extend the analysis of lattice-based
folding schemes to more general cyclotomic polynomials (rather than just those of
the form ϕ(X) = X d + 1 for d a power of two); this enables a much wider choice
of fields, as we will explain later. Namely, we are able to support the use of the
Goldilocks field [74], a field of order p = 264 −232 +1 and very efficient arithmetic.
Because Goldilocks has high 2-adicity (2 32 | (p− 1)), it is particularly SNARK-
friendly; a SNARK instantiated over this field can succinctly prove knowledge of
lattice-based accumulators and thus enable efficient verification for SuperNeo.
This mirrors MicroNova’s use of HyperKZG to compress its accumulators [84].
1.3 Related works
Lattice-based folding schemes are a recent area of research. We compare with
folding schemes [15,16,38,59], a lattice-based SNARK [26], and a lattice-based
polynomial commitment scheme [68].
Lattice-based folding schemes.Lova [38] is the only lattice-based folding scheme
based solely on the unstructured Short-Integer-Solution (SIS) problem rather
12

than Module-SIS, making it arguably the safest in terms of assumptions, but
at the cost of efficiency (several orders of magnitude slower) and generality (it
targets subset-sum constraints rather than R1CS/CCS). LatticeFold+ [16,17],
the followup to LatticeFold [15], introduces an algebraic range-proof technique
that encodes lookup tables into ring elements and checks norm constraints
via index proofs and sum-checks, enabling significantly higher norm bounds
than Hadamard-product-based approaches [19]. Despite claiming small-field
support, their protocols and parameterization are ring protocols over a large
prime field; the authors acknowledge [17] that their technique for field-native
sum-check and the evaluation homomorphism for folding are adapted from
Neo. LatticeFold+ re-interprets our technique as a tensor-of-rings approach; we
provide a simpler interpretation by identifying the various fields and rings as
subrings of K[X]/(ϕ(X)). SALSAA [59] is the first lattice-based folding scheme
that natively relies on ℓ2-norm constraints rather than ℓ∞-norm constraints.
SALSAA improves and extends the lattice-based proof system framework from
RoK, paper, SISsors [48] and RoK and Roll [49], achieving linear prover runtime
(down from quasilinear) via ring sum-check techniques. However, unlike other
lattice-based folding schemes, SALSAA relies on a relatively new assumption
called thevanishing Short-Integer-Solution(vSIS) assumption [32,45].
Lattice-based SNARKs.Symphony [26] is a lattice-based SNARK that uses high-
arity folding to prove repetitive NP claims without heuristically instantiating
the random oracle (as is typical of IVC/PCD-based recursion). Symphony also
relies on the tensor-of-rings approach, which as noted in LatticeFold+ [17] is a
re-interpretation of Neo’s techniques. Additionally, Symphony relies on space-
efficient sum-check, which imposes asymptotic and concrete overheads compared
to the sum-check in Neo and SuperNeo.
Lattice-based polynomial commitments.Hachi [68] is the first lattice-based
polynomial commitment scheme supporting extension-field evaluation of field
polynomials, adapting Greyhound [69] by replacing random projections with a
sum-check over the extension field for norm constraints and providing a tech-
nique to reduce extension-field evaluation proofs to ring statements via Grey-
hound/Labrador [12,69]. Neo (prior to Hachi) is the first work to check norms of
committed ring vectors via a sum-check purely over the extension field; despite
the use of circulant matrices in the evaluation-homomorphism proof, the sum-
check reduction itself requires no ring operations. SuperNeo (concurrent with
Hachi) uses a related but distinct application of the Galois automorphism trick:
in Hachi it proves multilinear evaluations for a polynomial commitment, while in
SuperNeo it folds CCS matrix evaluations for a folding scheme. Both achieve the
same packing efficiency: committing to a vector of length d·n requires only a
ring vector of lengthn.
13

2 Technical overview
We recall HyperNova and the challenges of moving to lattice-based commitments
(§2.1), then present the Neo (§2.2) and SuperNeo (§2.3) embeddings, and finally
our interactive reductions framework (§2.4).
2.1 Breaking down HyperNova
HyperNova [55]reducesCCS claims into random evaluation claims. These claims
are instances in aCCS relation,CCS, and aCCS evaluation relation,CE.
CCS:=
(
(s; (c, x);w) :
Forz:= [x, w], c=Commit(z)
∧f

M1z∼ , . . . , M tz∼ 
vanishes on{0,1} logm
)
CE:=
(
 
s;
 
c, x, r,{y j}j∈[t]

;w

:
Forz:= [x, w], c=Commit(z)
∧ ∀j∈[t], y j =M jz∼ (r)
)
To be considered a folding scheme, we must be able to describe HyperNova
as an interactive reduction Π : CCS×CE→CE , which takes as input a CCS
relation claim and a CCS evaluation relation claim and outputs a single CCS
evaluation relation claim. 6 Unlike the original HyperNova paper (for reasons that
will become clear later), we decide to break up HyperNova into two interactive
reductions which will be composed to form the overall reduction:
(Informal) Π CCS :CCS×CE→CE 2 andΠ RLC :CE 2 →CE.
The first reduction Π CCS utilizes the sum-check protocol [62,78] to reduce a CCS
claim and a CCS evaluation claim over a point r′ into a pair of CCS evaluation
claims over the same pointr.
 
s; (c, x);w

∈CCS∧
 
s; (c ′, x ′, r ′;{y ′
j}j∈[t]);w ′
∈CE
y ΠCCS
 
s;
 
c, x,r,{y j}j∈[t]

;w

∈CE∧
 
s;
 
c′, x ′,r,{y ′
j}j∈[t]

;w ′
∈CE
The second reduction Π RLC combines two CCS evaluation claims over the same
point r into a single CCS evaluation claim over pointr. In particular, the reduction
ΠRLC is trivial if Commit : F n →G is itself a linear map from field vectors to
a group G (i.e. linearly homomorphic). To combine both of these claims, the
verifier just samples a random challenge δ∈F and checks the following combined
claim:
 
s;
 
c∗, x ∗, r,{y ∗
j }j∈[t]

;w ∗
∈CE, where
c∗ :=c+δc ′, x ∗ :=x+δx ′,∀j∈[t], y ∗
j :=y j +δy ′
j, w ∗ :=w+δw ′.
Because Commit is a linear map over field vectors, we have that the new commit-
ment c∗ = Commit(z∗) for z∗ := [x∗, w∗]. Similarly, for each j∈ [t], we have that
6 In the technical overview, we consider only folding single instances of each relation
for simplicity, but our actual protocol works for folding multiple instances at once.
14

z7→M jz∼ (r) is also a linear map over field vectors, so y∗
j = Mjz∗∼ (r). Thus, the
combined claim is indeed a valid CCS evaluation claim as desired.
In order to construct the Neo and SuperNeo folding scheme, we will need to
construct a commitment scheme for field vectors (using Ajtai commitments) that
has a similarevaluation homomorphismproperty, which allows us to combine CCS
evaluation claims by taking random linear combinations over the ring rather than
the field. In doing so, we have the essential components to adapt the HyperNova
folding scheme to the lattice setting. In addition, we will have to add norm-checks
into the sum-check protocol and add a decomposition reduction [12, 15, 71] to
reduce norm growth. Later, we also discuss the technical difficulties when trying
to use prior extraction techniques to prove the security of our reductions in the
lattice setting, which is not apparent in the original HyperNova setting.
2.2 The Neo embedding
The Neo embedding is incredibly simple to describe, and what’s surprising is that
it also preserves both norm and the required form of evaluation homomorphism.
To embed field vectors z(1), . . . , z(d) ∈F n into a ring vector z∈ RF , the Neo
embedding simply embeds the field vectors along thedcoefficient slots.
z=
dX
j=1
z(j) ·X j−1 ⇐ ⇒ ∀i∈[n],z i =
dX
j=1
z(j)
i ·X j−1
In the expression above, z(j) ·X j−1 denotes scaling the field vector z(j) by the
monomial X j−1 (i.e. every element in the scaled vector has the form c·X j−1 for
some constantc∈F).
Preserving evaluation homomorphismThe first observation is any collection
of elements in the field F can be naturally embedded into the ring R F ⊆ RK
by interpreting them as constant polynomials. The second observation is that
K also contains an (isomorphic) copy of the base field F . Thus, a polynomial
with coefficients in the base field F can also be interpreted as a polynomial
with coefficients in the larger field K. Thus, CCS matrices Mj ∈F m×n and
the evaluation point r∈K logm can both be trivially embedded into the ring
as matrices Mj ∈ Rm×n
K and a point r∈ Rlogm
K . What happens when we take
the multilinear extension of z and evaluate it at this point r over the ring?
The first observation is multilinear evaluation is equivalent to taking an inner
product z∼(r) = ⟨z,ˆr⟩, where ˆr∈K n is a field vector derived from r. The second
observation is that multiplying a ring element a(X) = Pd−1
i=0 aiX i ∈ RF by a
constant polynomial c∈K simply scales each coefficient by c (i.e. a(X) ·c =Pd−1
i=0 (ai ·c )X i ∈ RK). Combining these two observations, we can see that
evaluating the multilinear extension of z at the point r is equivalent to evaluating
each of the underlying field vectors z(1), . . . , z(d) at the point r and stacking the
results as coefficients in a ring element.
z∼(r) =⟨z,ˆr⟩=⟨
dX
j=1
z(j) ·X j−1,ˆr⟩=
dX
j=1
⟨z(j),ˆr⟩ ·Xj−1 =
dX
j=1
z(j)
∼
(r)·X j−1
15

Moreover, this property extends to matrix-vector multiplications as well. For
r∈F logm , the evaluation Mjz∼ (r) has coefficients that are exactly the evaluations
Mjz(1)
∼
(r), . . . , Mjz(d)
∼
(r).
We can now see that the evaluation homomorphism trivially holds for the
Neo embedding. Consider two ring vectors z,z ′ ∈ Rn
F that are Neo embeddings
of field vectors z(1), . . . , z(d) ∈F n and z′(1), . . . , z′(d) ∈F n respectively. Also,
consider their evaluations y = Mjz∼ (r) ∈ RK and y′ = Mjz′∼
(r) ∈ RK at some
point r∈K logm . For an arbitrary ring scalar δ∈ RF , define z∗ = z + δ·z ′ ∈ RF
(c∗ = c + δ·c ′) and y∗ = y + δ·y ′. We must have that the underlying field
vectors of z∗ evaluate to the coefficients of y∗ at the point r. This is because
multilinear evaluation z7→M jz∼ (r) is linear over the ring so y∗ = Mjz∗∼ (r), and
we just showed that the coefficients of Mjz∗∼ (r) are exactly the evaluations of
the underlying field vectors of z∗ at the point r. Also, the vector z∗ still belongs
to the smaller ring R F and the underlying field vectors of z∗ still belong to the
base field F . Thus, as long as the norm of z∗ is small enough (which happens if
we sample δ from a special-set), c∗ is a valid commitment to z∗ directly using
the Ajtai commitment scheme.
2.3 The SuperNeo embedding
The SuperNeo embeddingGiven a field vector z∈F d·n, split the vector
into n sub-vectors of length d each, i.e., z = [ z1, z2, . . . , zn] where each zi :=
[zi,1, . . . , zi,d] ∈F d. We will embed each sub-vector zi as the coefficients of
a single ring element zi := Pd
j=1 zi,jX j−1 ∈ RF . The resulting vector z :=
[z1,z 2, . . . ,zn]∈R n
F is the SuperNeo embedding ofz.
Evaluation HomomorphismFor cyclotomic rings, there exists a linear trans-
form · : F d →F d such that for all a, b∈F d, we have the constant term
ct(¯a·b) = ⟨a, b⟩ where we embed ¯a∈F d into a ring element ¯a∈RF via coeffi-
cients. In layman’s terms, a product over the ring simulates an inner product
over the field. We can extend this transformation to vectors m∈F dn by ap-
plying · to each sub-vector of length d. Now, the constant term of the ring
inner product ct(⟨¯m,z⟩) = ⟨m, z⟩. Finally, we can extend this transformation
to matrices Mj ∈F m×dn by applying · to each row of length dn. Thus, the
constant term coefficient vector ct( ¯Mjz) = Mjz, where we extract the constant
terms of each of the m ring elements in ¯Mjz∈ Rm
F . Given a point r∈K logm ,
we can evaluate the ring vector y = ¯Mjz
∼
(r). As argued before, evaluating at the
point r evaluates each of the underlying coefficient vectors of ¯Mjz in parallel.
Hence, the constant coefficient of the ring evaluation y is exactly the desired
field evaluationy=M jz∼ (r).
Moreover, since z7→ ¯Mjz
∼
(r) is a linear map over R K (similar to the case
in Neo), the evaluation homomorphism property will identically be preserved.
In particular, given field vectors z, z′ ∈F dn with embeddings z,z ′ ∈ Rn
F and
evaluations y = Mjz∼ (r) and y′ = Mjz′∼
(r). For an arbitrary scalar δ∈ RF , let
z∗ = z + δz ′ and y∗ = y + δy ′. Then, we will have that the constant coefficient
16

of y∗ is exactly the field evaluation Mjz∗∼ (r) for z∗ being the underlying field
vector ofz ∗.
Pay-per-bit costsNeo and SuperNeo are both norm preserving embeddings.
Computing the Ajtai commitment c←Az requires a ring matrix-vector product.
When both the degree d≤ 64 and field size |F| ≤ 64 are small, a ring operation
a·b∈ RF is most efficiently implemented (using AVX-512) with a rotation matrix
product cf(a·b) = rot(a)·cf(b) =Pd
i=1 bi·rot(a)i over the field F . The dominating
costs are scaling bi ·rot(a) i, which scales linearly with the norm of bi. When the
bi’s are small (such as bits), the cost to compute the ring operation is essentially
adding the rotations rot(a)i for which bi is non-zero. For security reasons [15],
the cyclotomic ring cannot be perfectly splitting (ie. R ̸≃F d), so using the
NTT transform is a more inefficient method to compute ring operations than
simply adding scaled rotations. In particular, the NTT transform (in the non-full
splitting setting) is more memory intensive, is less cache friendly, and computing
high degree extension field multiplications (ex. 16 Fq4 muls) is concretely more
expensive than computing the corresponding base field scaling and additions.
2.4 Proving the security with interactive reductions
To understand why interactive reductions are necessary, we first need to under-
stand why the original proof of security for the HyperNova folding scheme [58] does
not carry over to SuperNeo. In particular, when we move to using lattice-based
commitments (such as Ajtai commitments), we will have to extract candidate
openings z that not only satisfy the linear relationship c = Az, but are also suffi-
ciently low norm (as Ajtai commitments are only binding for low norm openings).
However, in the process of solving for these candidate openings, the extractor
will end up obtaining vectors that potentially may have arbitrary norm. This is
often the case with lattice-based proof systems, which often must combine some
information-theoretic sound method to check the norm of committed vectors
(such as random projections or sum-check) with a method to batch prove knowl-
edge of linear openings (special-sound protocols). Recall (unlike in the original
work) that we broke the HyperNova folding scheme down into two reductions:
ΠCCS : CCS×CE→CE 2 and ΠRLC : CE2 →CE. The first reduction Π CCS reduced
the CCS and CCS evaluation claim into two CCS evaluations claims by using
the sum-check protocol and the second reduction Π RLC combined the two CCS
evaluation claims into a single CCS evaluation claim by taking a random linear
combination. The first issue arises when we try to prove Π RLC is knowledge sound
in the lattice setting. If we follow the same extraction strategy in HyperNova, we
would produce two candidate commitment openings z1 and z′
1 by solving the lin-
ear system z∗
1 = z1 + δ1z′
1 and z∗
2 = z1 + δ2z′
1 for two different random challenges
δ1 and δ2. In particular, this will require scaling by the inverse of the difference of
the two challenges (δ1 −δ 2)−1. However, in the ring setting, even if δ1 and δ2 are
low norm, the inverse ∆ := (δ1 −δ 2)−1 may have arbitrarily high norm, which
would lead to candidate openings z1 and z′
1 that also have arbitrarily high norm.
Thus, we cannot guarantee that the extracted openings are valid openings for the
commitments, but that they do indeed satisfy the linear relations c = Az and
17

z7→M z∼ (r). This means that Π RLC is not knowledge sound for the input relation,
but instead a relaxed relation where we drop the low norm requirement on the
openings. However, there is something special about these candidate openings.
In particular, in the process of extracting these openings, we produced what are
referred to asrelaxedopenings ∆·c = Az for the original commitments where
z is low norm and ∆ belongs to the difference set C − C . Under the hardness of
MSIS, producing multiple relaxed openings for the same commitment is hard.
Thus, even if we run the extractor multiple times, it will ultimately only be able
to output a single pair of candidate openings ( z1, z′
1); otherwise, it would be able
to produce multiple relaxed openings for the same commitment. In summary,
while Π RLC by itself is not knowledge sound for the original relation, we can
construct an extractor which extracts candidate witnesses for a relaxed relation,
and is restricted to only being able to output a unique candidate witness (with
high probability). Informally, we call an interactive reduction that satisfies these
properties as aweak interactive reduction.
The second issue arises when we try to prove that Π CCS is knowledge sound. In
a folklore security argument (for sum-check protocols), the extractor for Π CCS
essentially rewinds the potentially malicious prover multiple times to obtain
multiple candidate openings (the output witnesses) for the same commitment.
These candidate openings must also satisfy the evaluations outputted by the sum-
check protocol (assuming the prover is successful in both executions). However,
since the commitment is binding, all these candidate openings must be the same.
Hence, we are able to argue that the candidate opening (witness) from the
first execution must have evaluated to the correct evaluations required by the
sum-check protocol in the second execution. Observe, however, that the second
execution used verifier challenges that were independent of the first execution.
Hence, with high probability, the extracted candidate opening must satisfy the
required CCS claims. This argument crucially relies on that the fact that the
commitment scheme is binding to the candidate openings outputted by the
prover. This is trivial in the original HyperNova setting since the commitments
are binding to the whole message space. However, in the lattice setting, the
commitments are only binding to low norm openings.
To see where this goes wrong, consider that we need to prove that the overall
composition Π := ΠRLC ◦ΠCCS is knowledge sound. ΠRLC is only a weak interactive
reduction. Hence, it can only extract candidate openings for a relaxed relation,
where the low norm requirement is dropped, but all linear relations are still
satisfied. Thus, these candidate openings may not be bound by the original input
commitments. However, in the case ofweakinteractive reductions, we know that
the extractor can only output a unique candidate opening (with high probability).
Hence, we do not need to rely on the binding property of the commitment scheme
to argue that all candidate openings extracted from multiple executions of the
protocol must be the same. Therefore, by the same logic above, the candidate
openings must satisfy the required CCS claims with high probability. Additionally,
if we include sum-check constraints which ensure that the extracted openings
are low norm, then we can ensure that the extracted openings are indeed valid
18

openings for the original commitments. Generally, what do we require from
the first interactive reduction Π CCS to ensure that the overall composition is
knowledge sound? Essentially, if the malicious prover must always output the
same outputrelaxedwitness (with high probability), then there exist an extractor
which can extract a valid witness for the original relation. We call an interactive
reduction that satisfies this property astrong interactive reduction.
In our work, we use this framework to prove the security of our SuperNeo
folding scheme ΠSuperNeo := ΠDEC ◦ΠRLC ◦ΠCCS by decomposing it into a strong in-
teractive reduction ΠCCS, a weak interactive reduction ΠRLC, and a final reduction
of knowledge Π DEC [12,15,71].
Lemma 1. The sequential compositionΠ RLC ◦ ΠCCS is areduction of knowl-
edge(Definition 5) fromCCS(b,L) K ×CE(b,L) k toCE(B,L).
Proof. Follows directly from ΠCCS being a strong interactive reduction (Lemma 3),
ΠRLC being a weak interactive reduction (Lemma 4), and the strong-weak com-
position theorem (Theorem 6).
Theorem 1. The sequential compositionΠ DEC ◦ ΠRLC ◦ ΠCCS is areduction of
knowledge(Definition 5) fromCCS(b,L) K ×CE(b,L) k toCE(b,L) k.
Proof. Follows directly from ΠRLC◦ΠCCS being a reduction of knowledge (Lemma 1),
ΠDEC being a reduction of knowledge (Theorem 7), and sequential composition
of reductions of knowledge being reductions of knowledge (Lemma 2).
3 Overview of the following sections
Since the SuperNeo embedding lends itself to a more efficient and natural descrip-
tion of our folding scheme (since it does not require a SIMD constraint system),
the rest of the paper will be focused on the adaption of Hypernova-like interactive
reductions with the SuperNeo embedding (of course, with the appropriate lifting
and analysis in the lattice setting). We defer the original Neo work to the current
eprint [70].
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section 4, we provide the
necessary preliminaries for our work, including the syntax and security definitions
for interactive reductions. In Section 5, we define the evaluation homomorphism
embedding, which is a key technical tool used in our SuperNeo folding scheme. In
Section 6, we give the formal definitions of strong and weak interactive reductions,
and provide the exact composition theorem needed. In Section 7.1, we define the
CCS relation and the CCS evaluation relation, which are the main relations used
in our folding scheme. In Section 7.3, we describe the strong interactive reduction
ΠCCS that reduces the CCS and CCS evaluation claims into CCS evaluation
claims. In Section 7.4, we describe the weak interactive reduction Π RLC that
combines multiple CCS evaluation claims into a single CCS evaluation claim. In
Section 7.5, we describe the final reduction of knowledge Π DEC that reduces the
norm of the evaluation claims fromB=b k tob.
19

4 Preliminaries
For brevity, we defer some additional background to Section C.
NotationWe let λ denote the security parameter and negl(λ) denote a negligible
function in λ. Throughout the paper, the depicted asymptotics depend on λ, but
we elide this for brevity. We let PPT denote probabilistic polynomial time and
EPT denote expected probabilistic polynomial time. We let [ n] denote the set
{1, . . . , n}, and{u i}i∈[n] denote the set{u 1, . . . , un}.
PolynomialsWe write F d[X1, . . . , Xn] to denote multivariate polynomials over
field F in the variables ( X1, . . . , Xn) with degree bound ≤d for each variable.
We omit the superscript if there is no degree bound. We define ZSℓ as the set
of all multivariate polynomials F∈F [X1, . . . , Xℓ] such that for all x∈ { 0, 1}ℓ,
F (x) = 0 (i.e. vanish over the Boolean hypercube). We denote the polynomial
eq(x, y) =Qℓ
i=1(xi ·yi+(1 −xi)·(1−yi)), which outputs 1 if x = y and 0 otherwise
for x, y∈ { 0, 1}ℓ. For vector v∈F n we let v∼ ∈F 1[X1, . . . , Xlogn ] denote the
multilinear polynomial extension ofv:v ∼=P
j∈{0,1}logn eq(X1, . . . , Xlogn , j)·v j
Definition 1 (Fields, Rings, and Dimensions).
Fields:Let F be a finite field of prime order q and K to be the lowest degree
extension ofFsuch that1/|K|=negl(λ). We identifyFas a subfield ofK.
Rings:LetΦ( X) := X d + Φd−1X d−1 +· · ·+ Φ 1X+ Φ 0 ∈F [X]be the η-th cy-
clotomic polynomial with degree d. We define the ringR F := F [X]/(Φ(X)) and
the ringR K := K[X]/(Φ(X)) . We identify F as a sub-ring ofR F andR F as a
sub-ring ofR K.
Dimensions:Let m, n R, n F =d·n R, n F,in =d·n R,in ∈N ≥1. We use m to denote the
number of constraints, nF to denote the length of a field vector, nR to denote the
length of a ring vector, and nR,in and nF,in to denote input lengths. Let u, t∈N ≥1,
where u denotes a degree and t denotes a number of matrices. Let k, K∈N ≥1,
wherekandKindicate the number of instances.
Norm bounds:Letb, B=b k < q/2∈N ≥2 be norm bounds.
Definition 2 (Coefficient maps).We denote thecoefficient vectorof an
element a∈ RF as cf(a)∈F d. Given a vector z∈ Rm
F , we denote cf(z) to be the
coefficient matrix [cf(z 1),cf(z 2), . . . ,cf(z m)]∈F d×m. We define cf(z) ℓ to be
theℓ-th row of the coefficient matrixcf(z)(i.e. theℓ-th coefficient vector ofz).
We denote theconstant termof an element a∈ RF as ct(a) ∈F . Given a vector
z∈R m
F , we denotect(z)to be the vector(ct(z 1),ct(z 2), . . . ,ct(z m))∈F m.
We analogously define these maps for elements and vectors inR K.
Definition 3 (Norm).For an element a∈F , we define ∥a∥∞ as follows: Let
a′ ∈ [0, q− 1]denote the integer representation of amodq . If a′ ≤ (q− 1)/2,
then ∥a∥∞ = a′. Otherwise, if a′ > (q− 1)/2, then ∥a∥∞ = |a′ −q| . For a vector
z∈F n, we define the ℓ∞-norm ∥z∥∞ to be the max infinity norm of its elements.
For an element a∈ RF , we define ∥a∥∞ to be the ℓ∞-norm of the vector cf(a). For
a vectorz∈R m
F , we define∥z∥ ∞ to be the maximumℓ ∞-norm of its elements.
20

DecompositionWe define splitb : F m → (F m)∗ to be the b-ary decomposition
map, which performs the b-ary decomposition of a vector z∈F m into vectors
z1, z2, . . . , z∗. For example, ifz∈F m such that and∥z∥ ∞ < b k, then we have
splitb(z) := (z1, z2, . . . zk)such thatz=
kX
i=1
bi−1 ·z i and∥z i∥∞ < b
Definition 4 (Ring Commitment Scheme).A ring commitment scheme
com:= (Setup,Commit)consists of two PPT algorithms:
–Setup (1λ, m) →pp : Takes as input a security parameter1 λ and length
m∈N ≥1, outputs public parameterspp.
–Commit (pp, z ) →c : Takes as input public parameters pp and a vector z∈ Rm
F ,
outputs a commitmentc∈C.
A ring commitment scheme can satisfy the following properties:
B-binding:For every length m = poly(λ)and every EPT adversary A, a ring
commitment scheme isB-binding (forB∈N) if the following probability holds:
Pr


Commit(pp, z1) =Commit(pp, z 2)
∧ ∥z 1∥∞,∥z 2∥∞ < B,
∧z 1 ̸=z 2

pp←Setup(1 λ, m)
z1, z2 ∈R m
F ← A(pp)

 ≤ϵ bind(B)
for ϵbind(B) ≤negl (λ). We refer to a pair of vectors( z1, z2)which satisfies the
conditions in the probability as aB-binding collision.
(B,C )-relaxed binding:For every length m = poly(λ)and every EPT adversary
A, a ring commitment scheme is( B,C )-relaxed binding (for B∈N and set
C ⊆R F ) if the following probability holds:
Pr


∆1 ·c=Commit(pp, z 1)
∧∆ 2 ·c=Commit(pp, z 2)
∧ ∥z 1∥∞,∥z 2∥∞ < B,
∧∆ 1z2 ̸=∆ 2z1

pp←Setup(1 λ, m)


c∈C,
∆1, ∆2 ∈(C − C),
z1, z2 ∈R m
F

 ← A(pp)

 ≤ϵ rlx(B,C)
for ϵrlx(B,C ) ≤negl (λ). We refer to a tuple of elements( c, ∆1, ∆2, z1, z2)which
satisfies the conditions in the probability as a( B,C )-relaxed binding collision.
Homomorphic:For every m∈N and pp∈Setup (1λ, m), the commitment
algorithm,Commit(pp,·) : R m
F →C, is anR F -module homomorphism.
Theorem 2 (Properties [2,7,9,14]).The Ajtai commitment scheme (Defi-
nition 18) is a ring commitment scheme (Definition 4) that ishomomorphic,
B-binding(assuming the MSIS∞,κ,q
m,2B problem (Definition 16) is hard), and( B,C )-
relaxed binding(assuming the MSIS∞,κ,q
m,4T B problem is hard and C is a strong
sampling set (Definition 17) with expansion factorT(Theorem 9)).
21

Definition 5 (Interactive Reductions [50, 52]).Consider relations R1 and
R2 over parameters, structure, instance, and witness tuples. Aninteractive
reductionfrom R1 to R2 is defined by PPT algorithms( G,K,P,V )called the
generator, encoder, prover, and verifier respectively with the following interface.
–G(1 λ,sz)→pp: Takes as input a security parameter1 λ and size parameters
sz. Outputs public parameterspp.
–K (pp, s) → (pk,vk ): Takes as input public parameters pp and a structures.
Deterministically, outputs a prover keypkand a verifier keyvk.
–P (pk, u1, w1) → (u2, w2): Takes as input a proving key pk and an instance-
witness pair( u1, w1). Interactively reduces the task of checking(pp, s, u1, w1) ∈
R1 to the task of checking(pp,s, u 2, w2)∈ R 2.
–V (vk, u1) →u 2: Takes as input a verifier key vk and an instance u1 in
R1. Interactively reduces the task of checking the instance u1 to the task of
checking a new instanceu 2 inR 2.
Let ⟨P,V⟩ denote the interaction between P and V. We treat ⟨P,V⟩ as a function
that takes as input(( pk,vk ), u1, w1)and runs the interaction on the prover’s input
(pk, u1, w1)and the verifier’s input( vk, u1). At the end of the interaction, ⟨P,V⟩
outputs the verifier’s instanceu 2 and the prover’s witnessw 2.
Areduction of knowledge[51] is an interactive reduction,( G,K,P,V ),
that satisfies the following properties:
(i) Completeness: For any EPT adversary A, given pp← G (1λ,sz ),(s , u1, w1)
← A (pp)such that( pp, s, u1, w1) ∈ R 1, we have that the prover’s output
instance is equal to the verifier’s output instanceu 2, and that
(pp,s,⟨P,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1, w1))∈ R 2.
(ii) Knowledge soundness: For any EPT adversary( A,P ∗), there exists an
EPT extractorEsuch that if the success probability of the adversary
ϵ(A,P ∗) := Pr
"
(pp,s,⟨P ∗,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st))∈ R 2

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s, u1,st)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
#
≥1/poly(λ),then we have that
Pr

(pp,s, u 1, w1)∈ R 1

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s, u1,st)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
w1 ← E(pp,s, u 1,st)

 ≥ϵ(A,P ∗)−negl(λ).
(iii) Public Coin: All of the verifier’s messages are uniformly random strings of
some prescribed length. Furthermore, the verifier’s messages contain all of
the random coins (randomness) used by the verifier. 7
7 If a reduction of knowledge is public-coin, then it trivially satisfies the property
ofpublic reducibilitydescribed in [52] as the execution of the verifier V can be
emulated using the randomness from the transcript.
22

Lemma 2 (Sequential composition [50,52]).For reductions of knowledge
Π1 = (G,K,P 1,V 1) : R1 → R 2 andΠ 2 = (G,K,P 2,V 2) : R2 → R 3, we have that
Π2 ◦ Π1 = (G,K,P,V ) : R1 → R 3 is a reduction of knowledge where K(pp, s)
computes(pk,vk)and where
P(pk, u1, w1) =P 2(pk,P 1(pk, u1, w1))
V(vk, u1) =V 2(vk,V 1(vk, u1, w1))
Definition 6 (The sum-check protocol [62]).The sum-check protocol
SumCheck(T;Q) is a classic interactive proof protocol between two PPT al-
gorithms( P,V )that checks that the sum of evaluations of a ℓ-variate polynomial
Q∈F ≤d[X1, . . . , Xℓ]on the Boolean hypercube results in some claimed valueT.
The output of the sum-check protocol is a claim that v
?
=Q (r)for some random
point r∈F ℓ and claimed evaluations v, which the verifier V can query Q to check.
The protocol is public-coin, has a completeness error of0, and has a soundness
error of ≤ℓd/|F| . More generally, the field can be chosen to be an extension field
K. In this case, the soundness error is ≤ℓd/|K| . A self-contained description of
the sum-check protocol can be found in this note [81].
5 Embedding products with evaluation homomorphism
Here, we define a bijective embedding from the fieldFinto the ring R F .
Definition 7 (Coefficient Embedding).
Element embedding:Consider a vector v∈F d. We define v∈ RF (in bold font)
to be the ring element whose coefficient vector isv, i.e.cf(v) =v.
Vector embedding:Recall that we define nF = d·n R. Hence, for a field vector
z∈F nF , we have a natural partition into d-sized sub-vectors z = [z1, . . . , znR]. We
define the ring vector z := (z1, . . . ,znR) ∈ RnR
F to be the vector of ring elements,
which are the embeddings of then R =n F /dfield sub-vectors.
Matrix embedding:For a matrix M∈F m×nF with rows M1, . . . , M m ∈F nF , we
define M := JM1, . . . ,M mK∈ Rm×nR
F , which is the vertical concatenation of all
the embedded rows.
Inverse embedding:Similarly, given a ring vector v∈ RnR
F or ring matrix M∈
Rm×nR
F , we define the field vector v∈F nF or field matrix M∈F m×nF as the
inverse of previously defined coefficient embeddings.
Theorem 3 (Inner Product Transform [36, 64]).There exists a linear
transform ·:F d →F d such that for alla, b∈F d, we have the constant term
ct(¯a·b) =⟨a, b⟩
where¯adenotes applying the transform toaand embedding¯ainto the ring.
Here, we define an extension of the inner product transform · : F d →F d
(Theorem 3) to vectors and matrices.
23

Definition 8 (Lifting the Transform).
Vector Transform:Consider a vector v∈F nF , we can partition v into d-sized sub-
vectors[v 1, . . . , v nR]. We define ·:F nF →F nF to be¯v:= [¯v1, . . . ,¯vnR]∈F nF .
Matrix Transform:Consider a matrix M∈F m×nF with rows M1, . . . , M m ∈F nF .
We define ·:F m×nF →F m×nF to be ¯M:=
q ¯M1, . . . , ¯Mm
y
∈F m×nF .
Remark 1 (Efficiency and Sparsity Preservation).When the cyclotomic polyno-
mial ϕ(X) is a power-of-two cyclotomic or a trinomial cyclotomic, the transform
· : F nF →F nF essentially only involves permuting and adding entries of the input
vector, and hence can be computed in O(nF) time. Since the · is linear, if the
original matrixMis sparse, then the transformed matrix ¯Mis also sparse.
Theorem 4 (Matrix-Vector Product Transform).Consider an arbitrary
matrix M∈F m×nF and vector z∈F nF . The matrix-vector product M z∈F m is
equal to the constant terms of the matrix-vector product ¯M z∈ Rm
F , when viewing
each ring element as a polynomial. More succinctly,M z=ct( ¯M z).
Proof.For brevity, we defer the proof to Section D.1.
Remark 2 (Matrix-vector Product Evaluation).Consider an arbitrary vector
z∈F nF , matrix M∈F m×nF , and multilinear evaluation point r∈K logm . Define
the evaluation y := ¯M zi
∼
(r) = ⟨ ¯M zi,ˆr⟩ ∈RK. Observe that multiplying a ring
element in R F with an extension field element in K scales each coefficient of the
ring element by the extension field element. Hence, by Definition 2, we must
have that for all ℓ∈ [d], cf(y) ℓ = cf
  ¯M zi

ℓ
∼
(r) ∈K (i.e. the ℓ-th coefficient of
y is equal to the multilinear evaluation of the ℓ-th coefficient vector of ¯M zi at
point r). Since ct(y) = cf(y) 1 and ct
  ¯M zi

= cf
  ¯M zi

1, by Theorem 4, we can
observe that the constant term ct(y) = M z∼ (r) ∈K is exactly the multilinear
evaluation of the field vectorM zat pointr.
Theorem 5 (Evaluation Homomorphism).Consider an arbitrary matrix
M∈F m×nF , vectors z1, . . . , zℓ ∈F nF , scalars ρ1, . . . , ρℓ ∈ RF , and evaluation
point r∈K logm . Let L : RnR
F →C,L in : RnR
F → RnR,in
F be arbitraryR F -module
homomorphisms. For alli∈[ℓ], define
ci :=L(z i)∈Cx i :=L in(zi)∈R nR,in
F yi := ¯M zi
∼
(r)∈R K
Additionally, define
c:=
X
i∈[ℓ]
ρici ∈C,x:=
X
i∈[ℓ]
ρixi ∈R nR,in
F ,
z:=
X
i∈[ℓ]
ρizi ∈R nR
F , y:=
X
i∈[ℓ]
ρiyi ∈R K
We must have that c = L(z)and y = ¯M z
∼
(r). Additionally, for all i∈ [ℓ],
ct(yi) =M z i
∼ (r)andct(y) =M z∼ (r).
Proof.For brevity, we defer the proof to Section D.2.
24

6 Strong and weak interactive reductions
Definition 9 (Weak Interactive Reductions).Consider relations R1, R′
1,
and R2 over public parameters, structure, instance, and witness tuples such that
R1 ⊆ R ′
1. LetU 1 be the ambient instance space ofR 1.
An interactive reductionΠ : R1 → R 2, defined by PPT algorithms( G,K,P,V )
(Definition 5), isweakif it is complete, public coin, and there exists a function
ϕ : U1 →C (for an arbitrary space C) such that for any EPT adversary( A,P ∗),
there exists an EPT extractor E such that if the success probability of the adversary
ϵ(A,P ∗)≥1/poly(λ),then
Pr

(pp,s, u 1, w1)∈ R ′
1

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s, u1,st)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
w1 ← E(pp,s, u 1,st)

 ≥ϵ(A,P ∗)−negl(λ).
and ifA:= (B,B ′)such that
Pr


u1, u′
1 ̸=⊥
⇓
ϕ(u1) =ϕ(u ′
1)

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s,st ∗)← B(pp)
(u1,st)← B ′(st∗)
(u′
1,st ′)← B ′(st∗)

 = 1,
then
Pr


w1, w′
1 ̸=⊥
∧w 1 ̸=w ′
1

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s,st ∗)← B(pp)
(u1,st)← B ′(st∗)
w1 ← E(pp,s, u 1,st)
(u′
1,st ′)← B ′(st∗)
w′
1 ← E(pp,s, u ′
1,st ′)


≤negl(λ)
Definition 10 (Strong Interactive Reductions).Consider relations R1,
R2, and R′
2 over public parameters, structure, instance, and witness tuples such
thatR 2 ⊆ R ′
2. LetU 2 be the ambient instance space ofR 2.
An interactive reductionΠ : R1 → R 2, defined by PPT algorithms( G,K,P,V )
(Definition 5), isstrongif it is complete, public coin, and there exists a function
ϕ:U 2 →C(for an arbitrary spaceC) such that
(i) For any EPT adversary(A,P ∗),
Pr


u2, u′
2 ̸=⊥
⇓
ϕ(u2) =ϕ(u ′
2)

pp←Gen(1 λ)
(s, u1,st 1)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
(u2, w2)← ⟨P ∗,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st)
(u′
2, w′
2)← ⟨P ∗,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st)

 = 1
(ii) For any EPT adversary( A,P ∗), there exists an EPT extractor E such that if
ϵ′(A,P ∗) := Pr
"
(pp,s,⟨P ∗,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st))∈ R ′
2

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s, u1,st)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
#
25

≥1/poly(λ),and
Pr


w2, w′
2 ̸=⊥
∧
w2 ̸=w ′
2

pp←Gen(1 λ)
(s, u1,st)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
(u2, w2)← ⟨P ∗,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st)
(u′
2, w′
2)← ⟨P ∗,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st)

 ≤negl(λ)
then we have that
Pr

(pp,s, u 1, w1)∈ R 1

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s, u1,st)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
w1 ← E(pp,s, u 1,st)

 ≥ϵ ′(A,P ∗)−negl(λ).
Theorem 6 (Strong-Weak Composition).Consider relations R1, R2, R′
2
and R3 over public parameters, structure, instance, and witness tuples such that
R2 ⊆ R ′
2. Let U2 be the ambient instance space of R2. Consider interactive
reductions (Definition 5)Π 1 :R 1 → R 2 (R′
2),Π 2 :R 2 (R′
2)→ R 3 such that
(i)Π 1 isstrong(Definition 10) with respect to a functionϕ:U 2 →Cand
(ii)Π 2 isweak(Definition 9) with respect to thesamefunctionϕ,
then the sequential compositionΠ 2 ◦Π1 : R1 → R 3 is areduction of knowledge.
Proof.For brevity, we defer the proof to Section D.3.
7 Neo’s folding scheme for CCS
7.1 Relations
Definition 11 (Structure).We define astructureas a collection of elements
s:=
n
Mj ∈F m×nF
	
j∈[t] , f∈F <u[X1, . . . , Xt]
o
,
which consists of matrices and a degree-upolynomial.
Definition 12 (Norm-bounded CCS).Let L : R nR
F →C be an arbitrary
RF -module homomorphism. Letsbe a structured as defined in Definition 11. We
define thenorm-bounded CCS relation,CCS(b,L), as follows:



 
s; (c∈C, x∈F nF,in);w∈F nF −nF,in

:
Forz:= [x, w],
c=L(z)∧ ∥z∥ ∞ < b∧
f

M1z∼ , . . . , M tz∼ 
∈ZS logm



Definition 13 (Norm-bounded CCS Evaluation Relation).Letsbe a
structure as defined in Definition 11. Let L : R nR
F →C be an arbitraryR F -
module homomorphism. Define Lin : RnR
F → RnR,in
F to be the trivialR F -module
26

homomorphism that projects the first nR,in indices. We define thenorm-bounded
CCS evaluation relation,CE(b,L), as follows:




s;


c∈C,
x∈F nF,in,
r∈K logm ,
{yj ∈R K}j∈[t]

;z∈F n

 :
c=L(z)∧x=L in(z)
∧ ∥z∥ ∞ < b∧
∀j∈[t], y j = ¯Mjz
∼
(r)



7.2 A folding scheme for CCS via interactive reductions
Definition 14 (Global Reduction Parameters).
Here, we define the global parameters used in our reductions:
–DefineF,K, d,R F ,R K, m, nF , nR, nF,in, nR,in, u, t, k, K, b, Bas in Definition 1.
– Let C ⊆ RF be a strong sampling set (Definition 17) with expansion factor T
such that(K+k)T(b−1)< Band1/|C|=negl(λ).
– Let com := (Setup,Commit )be a ring commitment scheme (Definition 4),
which is homomorphic and(2 B,C )-relaxed binding. For pp←Setup (1λ, m),
define L := Commit(pp,· ) : RnR
F →C , which is aR F -module homomorphism.
– Let Lin : RnR
F → RnR,in
F be the trivialR F -module homomorphism that projects
the firstn R,in columns.
–Letsdenote a structure as defined in Definition 11.
In Section B, we instantiate these parameters with concrete values.
7.3 Interactive reduction for CCS – Π CCS
Overview.The reduction of knowledge Π CCS checks that the K incoming CCS
instances (Definition 12) indeed satisfy the required CCS constraints, the k
evaluationclaims (Definition 13), from the prior folding step, hold for point
r, and checks that the norms of all of the witness vectors (all K+k of them)
involved are less than b. To do so, Π CCS relies on the classic sum-check protocol
(Definition 6). The approach is inspired by similar reductions from [14, 55]. Π CCS
defines helper polynomials that, when used in the sum-check protocol, will
perform the previously specified checks.F( ⃗X) encodes the CCS constraints (all
K of them). NC( ⃗X) encodes the norm constraints (all K + k of them). Eval( ⃗X)
encodes the evaluation claims (all k of them) from the prior step. Finally, Q( ⃗X)
is defined such that if its sum over the boolean hypercube {0, 1}log(m) equals to
the constructed sum T, then all the respective checks hold.
CCS reductionΠ CCS
Parameters:Refer to Definition 14. Without loss of generality, assume that
m=n F andn F is a power of two and thatM 1 = InF is the identity matrix.
Input∈CCS(b,L) K ×CE(b,L) k
27

 
s; (c i ∈C, x i ∈F nF,in);w i ∈F nF −nF,in
K
i=1 ,

s;c i ∈C, x i ∈F nF,in, r∈K logm ,{y i,j ∈R K}j∈[t];z i ∈F nF
K+k
i=K+1
Output∈CE(b,L) K+k
 
s;c i ∈C, x i ∈F nF,in, r ′ ∈K logm ,{y ′
i,j ∈R K}j∈[t];z i ∈F nF

i∈[K+k]
SetupG(1 λ, nR)→pp: Outputpp←Setup(1 λ, nR).
EncoderK(pp,s)→(pk,vk): Output
 
(pp,s),⊥

.
Reduction⟨P,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1, w1)→(u 2;w 2):
1.V: Send challengesα
$
←K logm andγ
$
←KtoP.
2.V ↔ P: For alli∈[K], definez i := [xi, w i]. Define ⃗X := (X1, . . . , Xlogm ),
F( # ”X) :=
XK
i=1
γi−1 ·f

M1zi
∼ , . . . , M tzi
∼ 
∈K[ ⃗X]
NC( # ”X) :=
XK+k
i=1
γi−1 ·Qb−1
j=−b−1

zi
∼ −j

∈K[ ⃗X]
Eval( # ”X) :=eq
  # ”X, r

·
K+kX
i=K+1
tX
j=1
dX
ℓ=1
γI(i,j,ℓ) ·cf
  ¯Mjzi

ℓ
∼
∈K[ ⃗X]
where I(i, j, ℓ) =
 
i- (K + 1)

+ k(j- 1) + kt(ℓ- 1) and cf
  ¯Mjzi

ℓ
∼
is the multi-
linear extension of theℓ-th coefficient vector of ¯Mjzi (Definition 2).
Define
Q( ⃗X) :=eq( ⃗X , α)·

F( ⃗X) +γ K ·NC( ⃗X)

+γ 2K+k ·Eval( ⃗X)∈K[ ⃗X]
Define claimed sum ofQover{0,1} logm as
T :=
K+kX
i=K+1
tX
j=1
dX
ℓ=1
γI(i,j,ℓ) ·cf(y i,j)ℓ ∈K
PerformSumCheck(T;Q) (Definition 6) which reduces the claim that
T =P
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm Q(⃗ x)
to a new evaluation claimv
?
=Q(r ′) for new evaluation pointr ′ ∈K logm .
3.P: Send∀i∈[K+k],∀j∈[t], y ′
i,j ← ¯Mjzi
∼
(r′)∈R K.
4.V: Derive the claimed intermediate evaluations (Remark 2),
F :=
XK
i=1
γi−1 ·f
 
ct(y′
i,1), . . . ,ct(y ′
i,t)

∈K
N :=
XK+k
i=1
γi−1 ·Qb−1
j=−b−1
 
ct(y′
i,1)−j

∈K
28

E :=eq(r ′, r)
K+kX
i=K+1
tX
j=1
dX
ℓ=1
γI(i,j,ℓ) ·cf
 
y′
i,j

ℓ ∈K
Check the evaluation claimv
?
=Q
 
r′
as follows,
v
?
=eq(r ′, α)·

F +γ K ·N

+γ 2K+k ·E
5. Output
 
s;c i, x i, r ′,{y ′
i,j}j∈[t];z i

i∈[K+k]
Remark 3. By choosing M1 = I nF , we simplify our notation, because folding
M1z∼ = InF z∼ evaluations is equivalent to foldingz∼evaluations.
Lemma 3 (ΠCCS is strong).The interactive reductionΠ CCS : CCS(b,L )K ×
CE(b,L )k →CE (b,L )K+k (CE(q/2,L )K+k)isstrong(Definition 10) for the
functionϕ, which projects commitments(c i)i∈[K+k] from the instance.
Proof.For brevity, we defer the proof to Section D.4.
7.4 Random linear combination reduction – Π RLC
The interactive reduction Π RLC does exactly as the name suggests. Given K + k
input CCS evaluation claims of norm b, it outputs a single CCS evaluation claim
of larger norm B, which is a random linear combination of the input claims using
challenges from a strong sampling setC(Definition 17).
Random linear combination reductionΠ RLC
Parameters:Refer to Definition 14.
Input∈CE(b,L) K+k
 
s;c i ∈C, x i ∈F nF,in, r∈K logm ,{y i,j ∈R K}j∈[t];z i ∈F nF

i∈[K+k]
Output∈CE(B,L)
 
s;c∈C, x∈F nF,in, r∈K logm ,{y j ∈R K}j∈[t];z∈F nF

SetupG(1 λ, nR)→pp: Outputpp←Setup(1 λ, nR).
EncoderK(pp,s)→(pk,vk): Output
 
(pp,s),⊥

.
Reduction⟨P,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1, w1)→(u 2;w 2):
1.V: Sampleρ 1, . . . , ρK+k
$
← Cand compute:
c←
X
i∈[K+k]
ρici,x←
X
i∈[K+k]
ρixi,∀j∈[t], y j ←
X
i∈[K+k]
ρiyi,j
Sendρ 1, . . . , ρℓ toP.
2.P: Computez← P
i∈[K+k] ρizi.
29

3. Output
 
s;c, x, r,{y j}j∈[t];z

.
Lemma 4 (ΠRLC is weak).The interactive reductionΠ RLC : CE(b,L )K+k
 
CE(q/2,L )K+k
→CE (B,L )isweak(Definition 9) for the function ϕ, which
projects commitments(c i)i∈[K+k] from the instance.
Proof.For brevity, we defer the proof to Section D.5.
7.5 Decomposition reduction – Π DEC
Inspired by folklore techniques [12, 15, 71], our final reduction aims to reduce the
norm of claims from B = bk to b, which will allow us to continually fold CCS
claims without increasing the norm of the openings ( zi)i to the commitments.
Decomposition reductionΠ DEC
Parameters:Refer to Definition 14.
Input∈CE(B,L)
 
s;c∈C, x∈F nF,in, r∈K logm ,{y j ∈R K}j∈[t];z∈F nF

Output∈CE(b,L) k
 
s;c i ∈C, x i ∈F nF,in, r∈K logm ,{y i,j ∈R K}j∈[t];z i ∈F nF

i∈[k]
SetupG(1 λ, nR)→pp: Outputpp←Setup(1 λ, nR).
EncoderK(pp,s)→(pk,vk): Output
 
(pp,s),⊥

.
Reduction⟨P,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1, w1)→(u 2;w 2):
1.P: Compute
 
ci,{y i,j}j∈[t];z i

i∈[k] as follows,
(z1, . . . , zk)←split b(z), c i ← L(z i),∀j∈[t], y i,j ← ¯Mjzi
∼
(r)
Send
 
ci,{y i,j}j∈[t]

i∈[k] toV.
2.V: Compute (x 1, . . . , xk)←split b(x). Check the following equations,
c
?
=
X
i∈[k]
b i−1 ·c i and∀j∈[t], y j
?
=
X
i∈[k]
b i−1 ·y i,j
where the norm-boundbis treated as a field element.
3. Output
 
s;c i, x i, r,{y i,j}j∈[t];z i

i∈[k]
Theorem 7. ΠDEC :CE(B,L ) →CE (b,L )k is areduction of knowledge(Def-
inition 5).
Proof.For brevity, we defer the proof to Section D.6.
30

References
[1] Aardal, M.A., Aranha, D.F., Boudgoust, K., Kolby, S., Takahashi, A.: Aggre-
gating falcon signatures with LaBRADOR. In: Reyzin, L., Stebila, D. (eds.)
Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2024, Part I. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, vol. 14920, pp. 71–106. Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Santa Barbara,
CA, USA (Aug 18–22, 2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68376-3 3
[2] Ajtai, M.: Generating hard instances of lattice problems (extended abstract).
In: 28th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing. pp. 99–108.
ACM Press, Philadephia, PA, USA (May 22–24, 1996). https://doi.org/10.
1145/237814.237838
[3] Albrecht, M.R., Lai, R.W.F.: Subtractive sets over cyclotomic rings - limits
of Schnorr-like arguments over lattices. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.)
Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2021, Part II. Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, vol. 12826, pp. 519–548. Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Virtual Event
(Aug 16–20, 2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84245-1 18
[4] Albrecht, M.R., Player, R., Scott, S.: On the concrete hardness of learning
with errors. Journal of Mathematical Cryptology9(3), 169–203 (2015)
[5] Alkim, E., Ducas, L., P¨ oppelmann, T., Schwabe, P.: Post-quantum key
exchange - a new hope. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2015/1092 (2015),
https://eprint.iacr.org/2015/1092
[6] Arnon, G., Chiesa, A., Fenzi, G., Yogev, E.: WHIR: Reed–solomon proxim-
ity testing with super-fast verification. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2024/1586 (2024), https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/1586
[7] Attema, T., Cramer, R., Kohl, L.: A compressed Σ-protocol theory for
lattices. In: Malkin, T., Peikert, C. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology –
CRYPTO 2021, Part II. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 12826, pp.
549–579. Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Virtual Event (Aug 16–20, 2021).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-84245-1 19
[8] Attema, T., Klooß, M., Lai, R.W.F., Yatsyna, P.: Adaptive special sound-
ness: Improved knowledge extraction by adaptive useful challenge sampling.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2024/2038 (2024), https://eprint.iacr.
org/2024/2038
[9] Attema, T., Lyubashevsky, V., Seiler, G.: Practical product proofs for
lattice commitments. In: Micciancio, D., Ristenpart, T. (eds.) Advances in
Cryptology – CRYPTO 2020, Part II. Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
vol. 12171, pp. 470–499. Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Santa Barbara, CA,
USA (Aug 17–21, 2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-56880-1 17
[10] Ben-Sasson, E., Bentov, I., Horesh, Y., Riabzev, M.: Scalable zero knowledge
with no trusted setup. In: CRYPTO (2019)
[11] Ben-Sasson, E., Chiesa, A., Tromer, E., Virza, M.: Scalable zero knowledge
via cycles of elliptic curves. In: CRYPTO (2014)
[12] Beullens, W., Seiler, G.: LaBRADOR: Compact proofs for R1CS from
module-SIS. In: Handschuh, H., Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.) Advances in Cryp-

tology – CRYPTO 2023, Part V. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol.
14085, pp. 518–548. Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Santa Barbara, CA, USA
(Aug 20–24, 2023). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38554-4 17
[13] Bitansky, N., Canetti, R., Chiesa, A., Tromer, E.: Recursive composition
and bootstrapping for SNARKs and proof-carrying data. In: STOC (2013)
[14] Boneh, D., Chen, B.: LatticeFold: A lattice-based folding scheme and its
applications to succinct proof systems. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2024/257 (2024)
[15] Boneh, D., Chen, B.: LatticeFold: A lattice-based folding scheme and its
applications to succinct proof systems. In: Hanaoka, G., Yang, B.Y. (eds.)
Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2025, Part III. Lecture Notes in
Computer Science, vol. 16247, pp. 330–362. Springer, Singapore, Singa-
pore, Melbourne, VIC, Australia (Dec 8–12, 2025). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-981-95-5099-9 11
[16] Boneh, D., Chen, B.: LatticeFold+: Faster, simpler, shorter lattice-based fold-
ing for succinct proof systems. In: Kalai, Y.T., Kamara, S.F. (eds.) Advances
in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2025, Part VII. Lecture Notes in Computer Sci-
ence, vol. 16006, pp. 327–361. Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Santa Barbara,
CA, USA (Aug 17–21, 2025). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-032-01907-3 11
[17] Boneh, D., Chen, B.: LatticeFold+: Faster, simpler, shorter lattice-based fold-
ing for succinct proof systems. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2025/247
(2025), https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/247
[18] Boneh, D., Lynn, B., Shacham, H.: Short signatures from the Weil pairing.
In: Advances in Cryptology—ASIACRYPT 2001 (2001)
[19] Bootle, J., Lyubashevsky, V., Seiler, G.: Algebraic techniques for short(er)
exact lattice-based zero-knowledge proofs. In: Boldyreva, A., Micciancio,
D. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2019, Part I. Lecture Notes
in Computer Science, vol. 11692, pp. 176–202. Springer, Cham, Switzer-
land, Santa Barbara, CA, USA (Aug 18–22, 2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-030-26948-7 7
[20] B¨ unz, B., Chen, B.: Protostar: Generic efficient accumulation/folding for
special sound protocols. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/620 (2023)
[21] B¨ unz, B., Chiesa, A., Fenzi, G., Wang, W.: Linear-time accumulation schemes.
In: Applebaum, B., Lin, H.R. (eds.) TCC 2025: 23rd Theory of Cryptography
Conference, Part I. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 16268, pp.
369–399. Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Aarhus, Denmark (Dec 1–5, 2025).
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-032-12287-2 13
[22] Bunz, B., Fenzi, G., Rothblum, R., Wang, W.: Tensorswitch: Nearly optimal
polynomial commitments from tensor codes. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
Paper 2025/2065 (2025), https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/2065, https://eprint.
iacr.org/2025/2065
[23] B¨ unz, B., Fisch, B., Szepieniec, A.: Transparent SNARKs from DARK
compilers. In: EUROCRYPT (2020)
[24] Bunz, B., Mishra, P., Nguyen, W., Wang, W.: Arc: Accumulation for reed–
solomon codes. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2024/1731 (2024)
32

[25] B¨ unz, B., Mishra, P., Nguyen, W., Wang, W.: Accumulation without homo-
morphism. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2024/474 (2024)
[26] Chen, B.: Symphony: Scalable SNARKs in the random oracle model
from lattice-based high-arity folding. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2025/1905 (2025), https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/1905
[27] Chen, B., B¨ unz, B., Boneh, D., Zhang, Z.: Hyperplonk: Plonk with linear-
time prover and high-degree custom gates. In: EUROCRYPT (2023)
[28] Chen, S., Cheon, J.H., Kim, D., Park, D.: Verifiable computing for approx-
imate computation. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2019/762 (2019),
https://eprint.iacr.org/2019/762
[29] Chen, W., Chiesa, A., Dauterman, E., Ward, N.P.: Reducing participation
costs via incremental verification for ledger systems. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Report 2020/1522 (2020)
[30] Chiesa, A., Hu, Y., Maller, M., Mishra, P., Vesely, N., Ward, N.: Marlin: Pre-
processing zkSNARKs with universal and updatable SRS. In: EUROCRYPT
(2020)
[31] Chiesa, A., Ojha, D., Spooner, N.: Fractal: Post-quantum and transparent
recursive proofs from holography. In: EUROCRYPT (2020)
[32] Cini, V., Lai, R.W.F., Malavolta, G.: Lattice-based succinct arguments
from vanishing polynomials - (extended abstract). In: Handschuh, H.,
Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2023, Part II.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 14082, pp. 72–105. Springer,
Cham, Switzerland, Santa Barbara, CA, USA (Aug 20–24, 2023). https:
//doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38545-2 3
[33] Cini, V., Malavolta, G., Nguyen, N.K., Wee, H.: Polynomial commitments
from lattices: Post-quantum security, fast verification and transparent setup.
In: Reyzin, L., Stebila, D. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2024,
Part X. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 14929, pp. 207–242. Springer,
Cham, Switzerland, Santa Barbara, CA, USA (Aug 18–22, 2024). https:
//doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68403-6 7
[34] Coratger, T., Setty, S.: Post Quantum Signature Ag-
gregation: a Folding Approach. https://ethresear.ch/t/
post-quantum-signature-aggregation-a-folding-approach/23639 (2025)
[35] Eagen, L., Gabizon, A.: Protogalaxy: Efficient protostar-style folding of
multiple instances. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/1106 (2023)
[36] Esgin, M.F., Nguyen, N.K., Seiler, G.: Practical exact proofs from lattices:
New techniques to exploit fully-splitting rings. In: Moriai, S., Wang, H. (eds.)
Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2020, Part II. Lecture Notes in Com-
puter Science, vol. 12492, pp. 259–288. Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Daejeon,
South Korea (Dec 7–11, 2020). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64834-3 9
[37] Fenzi, G., Knabenhans, C., Nguyen, N.K., Pham, D.T.: Lova: Lattice-based
folding scheme from unstructured lattices. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2024/1964 (2024)
[38] Fenzi, G., Knabenhans, C., Nguyen, N.K., Pham, D.T.: Lova: Lattice-based
folding scheme from unstructured lattices. In: Chung, K.M., Sasaki, Y. (eds.)
Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2024, Part IV. Lecture Notes in
33

Computer Science, vol. 15487, pp. 303–326. Springer, Singapore, Singapore,
Kolkata, India (Dec 9–13, 2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-96-0894-2
10
[39] Fenzi, G., Moghaddas, H., Nguyen, N.K.: Lattice-based polynomial commit-
ments: Towards asymptotic and concrete efficiency. Journal of Cryptology
37(3), 31 (Jul 2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/s00145-024-09511-8
[40] Flynn, M.J.: Very high-speed computing systems. Proceedings of the IEEE
54(12), 1901–1909 (2005)
[41] Flynn, M.J.: Some computer organizations and their effectiveness. IEEE
transactions on computers100(9), 948–960 (2009)
[42] Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Lyubashevsky, V.: Practical non-interactive publicly
verifiable secret sharing with thousands of parties. In: Dunkelman, O.,
Dziembowski, S. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2022,
Part I. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 13275, pp. 458–487. Springer,
Cham, Switzerland, Trondheim, Norway (May 30 – Jun 3, 2022). https:
//doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06944-4 16
[43] Grassi, L., Khovratovich, D., Rechberger, C., Roy, A., Schofnegger, M.:
Poseidon: A new hash function for zero-knowledge proof systems. Cryptology
ePrint Archive, Paper 2019/458 (2019)
[44] H¨ ulsing, A., Butin, D., Gazdag, S.L., Rijneveld, J., Mohaisen, A.: XMSS:
eXtended Merkle signature scheme. RFC 8391 (2018)
[45] Jyrkinen, K., Lai, R.W.F.: Vanishing short integer solution, revisited - re-
ductions, trapdoors, homomorphic signatures for low-degree polynomials. In:
Jager, T., Pan, J. (eds.) PKC 2025: 28th International Conference on Theory
and Practice of Public Key Cryptography, Part II. Lecture Notes in Com-
puter Science, vol. 15675, pp. 273–300. Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Røros,
Norway (May 12–15, 2025). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-91823-0 9
[46] Kate, A., Zaverucha, G.M., Goldberg, I.: Constant-size commitments to
polynomials and their applications. In: ASIACRYPT. pp. 177–194 (2010)
[47] Kilian, J.: A note on efficient zero-knowledge proofs and arguments (extended
abstract). In: STOC (1992)
[48] Klooß, M., Lai, R.W.F., Nguyen, N.K., Osadnik, M.: RoK, paper, SISsors
toolkit for lattice-based succinct arguments - (extended abstract). In: Chung,
K.M., Sasaki, Y. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – ASIACRYPT 2024, Part V.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 15488, pp. 203–235. Springer,
Singapore, Singapore, Kolkata, India (Dec 9–13, 2024). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-981-96-0935-2 7
[49] Klooß, M., Lai, R.W.F., Nguyen, N.K., Osadnik, M.: RoK and roll - verifier-
efficient random projection for ˜O(λ)-size lattice arguments - (extended
abstract). In: Hanaoka, G., Yang, B.Y. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology –
ASIACRYPT 2025, Part III. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 16247,
pp. 297–329. Springer, Singapore, Singapore, Melbourne, VIC, Australia
(Dec 8–12, 2025). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-95-5099-9 10
[50] Kothapalli, A.: A Theory of Composition for Proofs of Knowledge. Ph.D.
thesis, Carnegie Mellon University (2024)
34

[51] Kothapalli, A., Parno, B.: Algebraic reductions of knowledge. In: Handschuh,
H., Lysyanskaya, A. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2023, Part IV.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 14084, pp. 669–701. Springer,
Cham, Switzerland, Santa Barbara, CA, USA (Aug 20–24, 2023). https:
//doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-38551-3 21
[52] Kothapalli, A., Parno, B.: Algebraic reductions of knowledge. In: CRYPTO
(2023)
[53] Kothapalli, A., Setty, S.: SuperNova: Proving universal machine executions
without universal circuits. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2022)
[54] Kothapalli, A., Setty, S.: Cyclefold: Folding-scheme-based recursive argu-
ments over a cycle of elliptic curves. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2023/1192 (2023), https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1192, https://eprint.iacr.
org/2023/1192
[55] Kothapalli, A., Setty, S.: HyperNova: Recursive arguments for customizable
constraint systems. In: CRYPTO (2024)
[56] Kothapalli, A., Setty, S.: NeutronNova: Folding everything that reduces to
zero-check. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2024)
[57] Kothapalli, A., Setty, S., Tzialla, I.: Nova: Recursive Zero-Knowledge Argu-
ments from Folding Schemes. In: CRYPTO (2022)
[58] Kothapalli, A., Setty, S.T.V.: HyperNova: Recursive arguments for cus-
tomizable constraint systems. In: Reyzin, L., Stebila, D. (eds.) Advances in
Cryptology – CRYPTO 2024, Part X. Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
vol. 14929, pp. 345–379. Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Santa Barbara, CA,
USA (Aug 18–22, 2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68403-6 11
[59] Kuriyama, S., Lai, R., Osadnik, M., Tucci, L.: Salsaa - sumcheck-aided lattice-
based succinct arguments and applications. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
2025/2124 (2025), https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/2124, https://eprint.iacr.org/
2025/2124
[60] Langlois, A., Stehl´ e, D.: Worst-case to average-case reductions for module
lattices. Designs, Codes and Cryptography75(3), 565–599 (2015). https:
//doi.org/10.1007/s10623-014-9938-4
[61] Longa, P., Naehrig, M.: Speeding up the number theoretic transform for faster
ideal lattice-based cryptography. In: Foresti, S., Persiano, G. (eds.) CANS
16: 15th International Conference on Cryptology and Network Security.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10052, pp. 124–139. Springer,
Cham, Switzerland, Milan, Italy (Nov 14–16, 2016). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-319-48965-0 8
[62] Lund, C., Fortnow, L., Karloff, H., Nisan, N.: Algebraic methods for interac-
tive proof systems. In: FOCS (Oct 1990)
[63] Lyubashevsky, V., Micciancio, D.: Generalized compact Knapsacks are
collision resistant. In: Bugliesi, M., Preneel, B., Sassone, V., Wegener, I.
(eds.) ICALP 2006: 33rd International Colloquium on Automata, Languages
and Programming, Part II. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 4052,
pp. 144–155. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Germany, Venice, Italy (Jul 10–14,
2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11787006 13
35

[64] Lyubashevsky, V., Nguyen, N.K., Plan¸ con, M.: Lattice-based zero-knowledge
proofs and applications: Shorter, simpler, and more general. In: Dodis, Y.,
Shrimpton, T. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2022, Part II.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 13508, pp. 71–101. Springer, Cham,
Switzerland, Santa Barbara, CA, USA (Aug 15–18, 2022). https://doi.org/
10.1007/978-3-031-15979-4 3
[65] Lyubashevsky, V., Seiler, G.: Short, invertible elements in partially splitting
cyclotomic rings and applications to lattice-based zero-knowledge proofs.
In: Nielsen, J.B., Rijmen, V. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – EURO-
CRYPT 2018, Part I. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 10820, pp.
204–224. Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Tel Aviv, Israel (Apr 29 – May 3,
2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-78381-9 8
[66] Micali, S.: CS proofs. In: FOCS (1994)
[67] Nethermind Research: Lattice-based operations per-
formance report. https://nethermind.notion.site/
Latticefold-and-lattice-based-operations-performance-report-153360fc38d080ac930cdeeffed69559
(2025)
[68] Nguyen, N.K., O’Rourk, G., Zhang, J.: Hachi: Efficient lattice-based mul-
tilinear polynomial commitments over extension fields. Cryptology ePrint
Archive, Paper 2026/156 (2026), https://eprint.iacr.org/2026/156, https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2026/156
[69] Nguyen, N.K., Seiler, G.: Greyhound: Fast polynomial commitments from
lattices. In: Reyzin, L., Stebila, D. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology –
CRYPTO 2024, Part X. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 14929, pp.
243–275. Springer, Cham, Switzerland, Santa Barbara, CA, USA (Aug 18–22,
2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-68403-6 8
[70] Nguyen, W., Setty, S.: Neo: Lattice-based folding scheme for CCS over small
fields and pay-per-bit commitments. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report
2025/294 (2025), https://eprint.iacr.org/2025/294
[71] Papamanthou, C., Shi, E., Tamassia, R., Yi, K.: Streaming authenticated
data structures. In: Johansson, T., Nguyen, P.Q. (eds.) Advances in Cryptol-
ogy – EUROCRYPT 2013. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 7881, pp.
353–370. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Germany, Athens, Greece (May 26–30,
2013). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-38348-9 22
[72] Pedersen, T.P.: Non-interactive and information-theoretic secure verifi-
able secret sharing. In: Feigenbaum, J. (ed.) Advances in Cryptology –
CRYPTO’91. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 576, pp. 129–140.
Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Germany, Santa Barbara, CA, USA (Aug 11–15,
1992). https://doi.org/10.1007/3-540-46766-1 9
[73] Peikert, C., Rosen, A.: Efficient collision-resistant hashing from worst-case
assumptions on cyclic lattices. In: Halevi, S., Rabin, T. (eds.) TCC 2006: 3rd
Theory of Cryptography Conference. Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
vol. 3876, pp. 145–166. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Germany, New York,
NY, USA (Mar 4–7, 2006). https://doi.org/10.1007/11681878 8
36

[74] Polygon Zero Team: Plonky2: Fast recursive arguments with PLONK and
FRI (2022), https://docs.rs/crate/plonky2/latest/source/plonky2.pdf, https:
//docs.rs/crate/plonky2/latest/source/plonky2.pdf
[75] Regev, O.: Lattice-based cryptography. In: Annual International Cryptology
Conference. pp. 131–141. Springer (2006)
[76] Schwartz, J.T.: Fast probabilistic algorithms for verification of polynomial
identities. J. ACM27(4) (1980)
[77] Seiler, G.: Faster avx2 optimized ntt multiplication for ring-lwe lattice
cryptography. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2018)
[78] Setty, S.: Spartan: Efficient and general-purpose zkSNARKs without trusted
setup. In: CRYPTO (2020)
[79] Setty, S., Thaler, J., Wahby, R.: Customizable constraint systems for succinct
arguments. Cryptology ePrint Archive (2023)
[80] Shor, P.W.: Polynomial-time algorithms for prime factorization and discrete
logarithms on a quantum computer. vol. 26, pp. 1484–1509 (1997)
[81] Thaler, J.: The sum-check protocol. https://people.cs.georgetown.edu/
jthaler/sumcheck.pdf (Sep 2017)
[82] Valiant, P.: Incrementally verifiable computation or proofs of knowledge
imply time/space efficiency. In: TCC. pp. 552–576 (2008)
[83] Zeilberger, H., Chen, B., Fisch, B.: BaseFold: Efficient field-agnostic poly-
nomial commitment schemes from foldable codes. In: Reyzin, L., Stebila,
D. (eds.) Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2024, Part X. Lecture Notes
in Computer Science, vol. 14929, pp. 138–169. Springer, Cham, Switzer-
land, Santa Barbara, CA, USA (Aug 18–22, 2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/
978-3-031-68403-6 5
[84] Zhao, J., Setty, S.T.V., Cui, W., Zaverucha, G.: MicroNova: Folding-based
arguments with efficient (on-chain) verification. In: Blanton, M., Enck, W.,
Nita-Rotaru, C. (eds.) 2025 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy.
pp. 1964–1982. IEEE Computer Society Press, San Francisco, CA, USA
(May 12–15, 2025). https://doi.org/10.1109/SP61157.2025.00168
[85] Zhou, Z., Zhang, Z., Dong, J.: Proof-carrying data from multi-folding schemes.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/1282 (2023)
37

Supplementary Material
A AI Disclaimer
Portions of this manuscript were edited with the assistance of an AI writing tool
(Github copilot), which was used to improve grammar, wording, and formatting
consistency. All technical content-including definitions, theorems, and proofs-
was produced and verified by the authors, who take full responsibility for the
correctness and originality of the work.
B Concrete parameters
This section provides three efficient parameterizations over ≤ 64-bit fields. Addi-
tionally, Section D.7 and Section D.8 provide the corresponding sage scripts that
we used to determine valid parameterizations. In Definition 14, we require the
commitment scheme to be ( d, m,2B,C )-relaxed binding (Definition 4). Thus, we
need the commitment scheme to be ( d, m,4T B)-binding (Definition 4). Finally,
Ajtai’s commitment scheme is ( d, m,4T B)-binding if MSIS∞,κ,q
m,8T B is hard. We
estimate the hardness of Module-SIS using the lattice estimator library provided
by [4] using our script (Section D.8).
B.1 Almost Goldilocks: (2 64 −2 32 + 1)−32
We provide a new field, which we refer to asAlmost Goldilocks. This field’s order
is q = (264 − 232 + 1) − 32, which is close to the order of the Goldilocks field
264 − 232 + 1. Because of this, the field admits an efficient implementation with a
small change to the Solinas prime reduction algorithm (which is typically used
for the Goldilocks field).
η = 128, Φ = X 64 + 1, d = 64, RF := F [X]/(Φ), κ = 15, nF = 233, b = 2, k = 13,
K∈ [50], B = 213. Define C to be the set polynomials in R F whose coefficients
belong to [ −1, 0, 1, 2]. By Theorem 9, T = 128. By Theorem 8, binv ≈ 4. K = Fq2.
|C|= 2 128,|K| ≈2 128,MSIS ∞,κ,q
m,8T B ≈129 bits of security.
B.2 Goldilocks: (2 64 −2 32 + 1)
This is a popular choice of field for SNARKs as the field admits an efficient
implementation: field operations can be implemented with essentially only bit-
shifts and the field has high 2-adicity (232 | (p− 1)), which is useful for compressing
Neo’s IVC proofs with SNARKs.
η = 81, Φ = X 54 + X 27 + 1, d = 54, R F := F [X]/(Φ), κ = 18, nF = 230, b = 2,
k = 14, K∈ [61], B = 2 14. Define C to be the set polynomials in R F whose
coefficients belong to [ −2,− 1, 0, 1, 2]. By Theorem 9, T = 216. By Theorem 8,
binv ≈2.5·10 9.K=F q2.
|C| ≈2 125,|K| ≈2 128,MSIS ∞,κ,q
m,8T B ≈129 bits of security.
38

Remark 4 (Incompatibility with Latticefold [14]).In LatticeFold [14], the construc-
tions and analysis are limited to power-of-two cyclotomic polynomials, namely
of the form X d + 1 with d being a power-of-two. Since the Goldilocks field has
high 2-adicity, the cyclotomic polynomial completely factors into linear terms.
This means that the ring R F is isomorphic to F d
q (the NTT representation). The
security of LatticeFold’s construction depends on the size of the field in the NTT
representation [14, Sec 3.3], which here is only 64 bits.
B.3 Mersenne 61: 2 61 −1
This field admits an incredibly efficient implementation as it is only one off from a
power-of-two. Specifically, modular arithmetic over this field can be implemented
with simple bit-shifts with an algorithm more efficient than Goldilocks.
η = 81, Φ = X 54 + X 27 + 1, d = 54, R F := F [X]/(Φ), κ = 18, nF = 228, b = 2,
k = 14, K∈ [61], B = 2 14. Define C to be the set polynomials in R F whose
coefficients belong to [ −2,− 1, 0, 1, 2]. By Theorem 9, T = 216. By Theorem 8,
binv ≈383.K=F q2.
|C| ≈2 125,|K| ≈2 122,MSIS ∞,κ,q
m,8T B ≈129 bits of security.
Remark 5 (Incompatibility with Latticefold [14]).As stated earlier, LatticeFold’s
constructions and analysis are limited to power-of-two cyclotomic polynomials,
namely of the form X d+1 for d being a power-of-two. For Mersenne 61, there is no
choice of power-of-two cyclotomic polynomials, which satisfies the requirements
of Theorem 8. Hence, it cannot be determined whether a choice of parameters
with Φ =X d + 1 leads to a secure construction.
C Additional Background
Relation ProductsFor relations R1 and R2 over public parameter, structure,
instance, and witness pairs we define the relationR1×R2 such that (pp, s, (u1, u2),
(w1, w2)) ∈ R 1 × R2 if and only if ( pp, s, u1, w1) ∈ R 1, and ( pp, s, u2, w2) ∈ R 2.
We letR n denoteR ×. . .× Rforntimes.
Lemma 5 (Schwartz-Zippel [76]).let g : F ℓ →F be an ℓ-variate polynomial
of total degree at mostd. Then, on any finite setS⊆F,
Pr
x←Sℓ
[g(x) = 0]≤d/|S|.
Lemma 6.LetQ∈F[X 1, . . . , Xℓ]be an arbitrary multivariate polynomial. De-
fine multivariate polynomialQ ′( ⃗X , ⃗Z) :=eq( ⃗X , ⃗Z)·Q( ⃗X).
0 =
X
⃗ x∈{0,1}logℓ
Q′(⃗ x, ⃗Z)if and only ifQ( ⃗X)∈ZS ℓ
39

Definition 15 (Module Homomorphism).Modules are a generalization of
vector spaces for which the field of scalars is replaced by a ringR. SupposeRis a
commutative ring with identity1andGis an abelian (commutative) group. The
groupGis anR-module if there is an operation · : R × G → Gsuch that for all
r, s∈ Rand x, y∈ G, r· (x + y) = r·x + r·y, (r + s) ·x = r·x + s·x, (rs) ·x =
r· (s·x ), 1 ·x = x. SupposeG 1 andG 2 are R-modules. Similarly, anR-module
homomorphism is a map L : G1 → G2 that is a generalization of a linear map of
vector spaces. L is anR-module homomorphism if for all x, y∈ G1 and r∈ R,
L(x+y) =L(x) +L(y)andL(r·x) =r· L(x).
Definition 16 (Module short integer solution [60, 63, 73]).Define the
ringR Z := Z[X]/(Φ(X)). The MSIS∞,κ,q
m,B problem is defined as follows: Given a
matrix M
$
← Rκ×m
F sampled uniformly at random, find a non-zero vector z∈ RZ
such thatM z= 0 modqand∥z∥ ∞ < B.
Theorem 8 (Low norm invertibility [65, Theorem 1.1, Conjecture 2.6]).
Let z∈N such that z|η , q≡ 1 ( modz ), and ordη(q) = η/z. Define binv :=
1/
p
τ(z)·q 1/ϕ(z) where τ(z) := z if z is odd, otherwise τ(z) = z/2. For an
arbitrarya∈R F , if0<∥a∥ ∞ <b inv, thenais invertible inR F .
Definition 17 (Strong sampling sets [3,28]).DefineC ⊆R F to be any set
of ring elements such that for any distinct elements a, b∈ C , ∥a−b∥ ∞ <b inv
(Theorem 8). Furthermore, we define the
expansion factorofC:= max
v∈RF
ρ∈C
∥ρv∥∞
∥v∥∞
Theorem 9 (Expansion factors [3]).Let C be a strong sampling set over the
cyclotomic ringR F (Definition 17), We denote the Euler totient function as ϕ.
We must have that the expansion factor ofCis≤2·ϕ(η)·max ρ∈C ∥ρ∥∞.
Definition 18 (Ajtai commitment scheme [2]).Let message length m∈N .
The Ajtai commitment scheme com := (Setup,Commit )consists of the following
PPT algorithms:
–Setup(κ, m)→pp: Sample a random matrixM
$
←R κ×m
F . Outputpp←M.
–Commit(pp, z)→c: Given parametersppand vectorz∈R m
F , outputM z.
In this work, we are primarily interested in building folding schemes, a
particular type of reduction of knowledge that reduces the task of checking
instances in some relationR 2 into a running instance in a relationR 1.
Definition 19 (Folding scheme).A folding scheme for a relation R is a
reduction of knowledge of typeR × R ACC → R ACC for some relationR ACC.
Definition 20 (Special sets [39]).Let C be a set and ℓ∈N . Consider two
vectorsx, y∈ C ℓ. We define the relation≡ i fori∈[ℓ]as follows:
x≡ i y⇐ ⇒x i ̸=y i ∧x j =y j for allj∈[ℓ]\ {i}.
40

A special setSS(C, ℓ)is as follows:
SS(C, ℓ) =

(⃗ c, ⃗ c1, . . . , ⃗ cℓ)∈(C ℓ)ℓ+1 : ∀i∈[ℓ],
⃗ c≡i ⃗ ci

,
Theorem 10 (Coordinate-wise extraction [39, Lemma 7.1]).Let C be
a finite set, ℓ∈N , and ⃗C := Cℓ be a challenge space. Let A : ⃗C → { 0, 1}∗ be
an arbitrary (probabilistic) expected polynomial-time algorithm (adversary), and
V : ⃗C × {0, 1}∗ → {0, 1} be an arbitrary (probabilistic) polynomial-time function
(verification). Define the success probability of adversaryAas
ϵV(A) := Pr
⃗ c
$
← ⃗C
[V( ⃗ c, A( ⃗ c)) = 1]
Then, there exists an expected polynomial-time oracle algorithm EA (extractor)
that makes at most ℓ + 1queries to A in expectation and with probability at least
ϵV(A)− ℓ
|C| outputsℓ+ 1pairs( ⃗ c, w),( ⃗ c1, w1), . . .(⃗ cℓ, wℓ)such that
–V( ⃗ c, w) = 1,
–for alli∈[ℓ],V( ⃗ ci, wi) = 1,
–and( ⃗ c, ⃗ c1, . . . ,⃗ cℓ)∈SS(C, ℓ).
D Deferred theorems and proofs
D.1 Proof of Matrix-Vector Product Transformation (Theorem 4)
Proof. Let M1, . . . , Mm ∈F nF be the rows of M. Define z1, . . . , znR ∈F d and
Mi,1, . . . , Mi,nR ∈F d (for all i∈ [m]) to be the partition of vector z and row Mi
intod-sized sub-vectors, respectively. We must have that for alli∈[m],
ct
 
⟨ ¯Mi,z⟩

=
X
j∈[nR]
ct
  ¯Mi,j ·z j

=
X
j∈[nR]
⟨Mi,j, z j⟩=⟨M i, z⟩
The first equality is true because, by definition of inner product, ⟨ ¯Mi,z⟩ =P
j∈[nR] ¯Mi,j ·z j and the constant term of a sum of polynomials is equal to the
sum of the constant terms of the polynomials. The second equality follows from
Theorem 3. The third inequality follows from ( Mi,j)j and (zj)j being partitions
of Mi and z, respectively. Since, for all i∈ [m] (i.e. for each row), we have
ct
 
⟨ ¯Mi,z⟩

=⟨M i, z⟩, we must have thatM z=ct( ¯M z).
D.2 Proof of Evaluation Homomorphism (Theorem 5)
Proof. First, we will prove that c = L(z). Since L is a RF -module homomorphism,
the following holds
c=
X
i∈[ℓ]
ρici =
X
i∈[ℓ]
ρiL(zi) =L
P
i∈[k] ρizi

=L(z).
41

Now, we will prove that y = ¯M z
∼
(r). Since multilinear evaluation z7→ ¯M z
∼
(r) =
⟨ ¯M z,ˆr⟩is a linear map over R K (i.e. is a R K-module homomorphism), the
following holds
y=
X
i∈[ℓ]
ρiyi =
X
i∈[ℓ]
ρi · ¯M zi
∼
(r) = ¯M·
 P
i∈[ℓ] ρi ·z i
∼
(r) = ¯M z
∼
(r)
Finally, by Remark 2, we have that for all i∈ [ℓ], ct(yi) = M zi
∼ (r) and ct(y) =
M z∼ (r). This concludes our proof.
D.3 Proof of Composition Theorem (Theorem 6)
Proof. Consider an arbitrary expected polynomial-time adversary ( A,P ∗) for the
composition Π := Π2 ◦Π1 with success probability ϵ(A,P ∗) ≥ 1/poly(λ). Without
loss of generality, the adversary P ∗ can be split into two adversaries ( P ∗
1 ,P ∗
2 )
such that givenpp← G(1 λ), (s, u1,st 1)← A(pp), and (pk,vk)← K(pp,s),
–⟨P ∗
1 ,V 1⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st 1)→(u 2,st 2)
–⟨P ∗
2 ,V 2⟩((pk,vk), u 2,st 2)→(u 3, w3)
Furthermore, we assume that A outputs st1 which contains (s,pp ); otherwise, we
could trivially construct an adversary A′ with an identical distribution of prior
outputs that does so. First, we construct an adversaryA 2 := (B2,B ′
2) for Π 2:
B2(pp)→(s,st 1) :
1. (s, u 1,st 1)←A(pp).
2. Output (s,st 1).
B′
2(st1)→(u 2,st 2) :
1. Parsest 1 to obtain (s,pp).
2. (pk,vk)← K(pp,s).
3. Simulate (u 2,st 2)← ⟨P ∗
1 ,V 1⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st 1).
4. Output (u 2,st 2).
A2(pp)→(s, u 2,st 2) :
1. (s,st 1)← B 2(pp).
2. (u 2,st 2)← B ′
2(st1).
3. Output (s, u 2,st 2).
Observe that, by construction, the success probability ϵ(A2,P ∗
2 ) of adversary
(A2,P ∗
2 ) for Π 2 is equal to the success probabilty ϵ(A,P ∗) of adversary ( A,P ∗)
for Π. Since Π 1 isϕ-restricted, we must have
Pr


u2, u′
2 ̸=⊥
⇓
ϕ(u2) =ϕ(u ′
2)

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s,st 1)← B 2(pp)
(u2,st 2)← B ′
2(st1)
(u′
2,st ′
2)← B ′
2(st1)

 = 1,(1)
42

Thus, we have by (1) and the ϕ-relaxed knowledge soundness of Π 2 that there
exists an expected polynomial-time extractorE 2 such that
Pr

(pp,s, u 2, w2)∈ R ′
2

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s, u2,st 2)← A 2(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
w2 ← E 2(pp,s, u 2,st 2)

 ≥ϵ(A,P ∗)−negl(λ) (2)
and Pr


w2, w′
2 ̸=⊥
∧w 2 ̸=w ′
2

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s,st 1)← B 2(pp)
(u2,st 2)← B ′
2(st1)
w2 ← E 2(pp,s, u 2,st 2)
(u′
2,st ′
2)← B ′
2(st1)
w′
2 ← E 2(pp,s, u ′
2,st ′
2)


≤negl(λ) (3)
Next, we will construct an adversaryP ∗∗
1 for Π1:
P ∗∗
1 (pk, u1,st 1)→w 2 :
1. Parsest 1 to obtain (s,pp).
2. (pk,vk)← K(pp,s).
3. Simulate (u 2,st 2)← ⟨P ∗
1 ,V 1⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st 1).
4.w 2 ← E 2(pp,s, u 2,st 2).
5. Outputw 2.
Observe that, by construction, the relaxed success probability ϵ′(A,P ∗∗
1 ) of
adversary (A,P ∗∗
1 ) for Π 1 is equal to ϵ(A,P ∗) −negl (λ) ≥ 1/poly(λ) which is the
success probability of the relaxed extractor E2 from equation (2). Furthermore,
by equation (3) and construction of (B 2,B ′
2), we must have that
Pr


w2, w′
2 ̸=⊥
∧
w2 ̸=w ′
2

pp←Gen(1 λ)
(s, u1,st 1)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
(u2, w2)← ⟨P ∗∗
1 ,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st 1)
(u′
2, w′
2)← ⟨P ∗∗
1 ,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st 1)


≤negl(λ) (4)
Thus, we have by (4) and the restricted knowledge soundness of Π 1 that there
exists an expected polynomial-time extractorE 1 such that
Pr

(pp,s, u 1, w1)∈ R 1

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s, u1,st 1)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
w1 ← E 1(pp,s, u 1,st 1)

 ≥ϵ(A,P ∗)−negl(λ) (5)
In conclusion, we have constructed an extractor E := E1 with respect to adversary
(A,P ∗) such that
Pr

(pp,s, u 1, w1)∈ R 1

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s, u1,st 1)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
w1 ← E(pp,s, u 1,st 1)

 ≥ϵ(A,P ∗)−negl(λ).
Thus, Π := Π2 ◦Π 1 is knowledge sound.
43

D.4 Proofs for Π CCS
We first provide a lemma that will be helpful for both the security and complete-
ness of the interactive reduction.
Lemma 7.Consider the following arbitrary items:
structures,vectorsz 1, . . . , zK+k ∈F nF ,
pointr∈K logm ,evaluations
 
{yi,j ∈R K}j∈[t]
K+k
i=K+1 .
Similarly toΠ CCS (Section 7.3), define polynomials
F( ⃗X , C) :=
XK
i=1
C i−1 ·f

M1zi
∼   ⃗X

, . . . , M tzi
∼   ⃗X

NC( ⃗X , C) :=
XK+k
i=1
C i−1 ·Qb−1
j=−b−1

zi
∼  ⃗X

−j

Eval( ⃗X , C) :=eq
  ⃗X , r

·
K+kX
i=K+1
tX
j=1
dX
ℓ=1
C I(i,j,ℓ) ·cf
  ¯Mjzi

ℓ
∼   ⃗X

Q( ⃗X , ⃗A, C) :=eq( ⃗X , ⃗A)·

F( ⃗X , C) +C K ·NC( ⃗X C)

+C 2K+k ·Eval( ⃗X , C)
T(C) :=
K+kX
i=K+1
tX
j=1
dX
ℓ=1
C I(i,j,ℓ) ·cf(y i,j)ℓ
where challenges α∈K logm and γ∈K are replaced by indeterminate variables
⃗A := (A1, . . . , Alogm )andC, respectively.
We must haveT(C) = P
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm Q(⃗ x, ⃗A, C)if and only if
1.f

M1zi
∼ , . . . , M tzi
∼ 
∈ZS logm for alli∈[K],
2. and for alli∈[K+k],∥z i∥∞ < b,
3. and for alli∈[K+ 1, K+k]andj∈[t],y i,j = ¯Mjzi
∼
(r).
Proof.By definition ofT(C),
T(C) = P
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm Q(⃗ x, ⃗A, C)
if and only if
K+kX
i=K+1
tX
j=1
dX
ℓ=1
C I(i,j,ℓ) ·cf(y i,j)ℓ =P
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm Q(⃗ x, ⃗A, C) (6)
Since powers ofCare linearly independent, Equation (6) occurs if and only if
∀i∈[K],0 =
X
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm
eq(⃗ x, ⃗A)·f

M1zi
∼ (⃗ x), . . . , M tzi
∼ (⃗ x)

,(7)
44

∀i∈[K+k],0 =
X
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm
eq(⃗ x, ⃗A)· Qb−1
j=−b−1

zi
∼(⃗ x)−j

,(8)
∀i∈[K+ 1, K+k],
∀j∈[t],
∀ℓ∈[d],
cf(y i,j)ℓ =
X
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm
eq(⃗ x, r)·cf
  ¯Mjzi

ℓ
∼  
⃗ x

(9)
By Lemma 6, Equation (7) and Equation (8) occur if and only if
1.f

M1zi
∼ , . . . , M tzi
∼ 
∈ZS logm for alli∈[K] (Item 1),
2. Qb−1
j=−b−1

zi
∼(⃗ x)−j

∈ZS logm for alli∈[K+k]
Over a field, we must have Qb−1
j=−b−1

zi
∼(⃗ x) −j

∈ZS logm if and only if for all
i∈ [K + k], ∥zi∥∞ < b (Item 2). By definition of multilinear extension and
Remark 2, we must have that
∀i∈[K+ 1, K+k],∀j∈[t],
∀ℓ∈[d],cf(y i,j)ℓ =P
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm eq(⃗ x, r)·cf
  ¯Mjzi

ℓ
∼  
⃗ x

(Equation (9))
if and only if
∀i∈[K+ 1, K+k],∀j∈[t],
yi,j = ¯Mjzi
∼
(r) (Item 3)
In conclusion, we have shown
T(C) = P
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm Q(⃗ x, ⃗A, C)
if and only if (Item 1), (Item 2), and (Item 3).
Lemma 8. The interactive reductionΠ CCS : CCS(b,L )K ×CE (b,L )k →CE (b,
L)K+k iscompleteandpublic coin.
Proof. Completeness.Assume the original input tuples belong to relations
CCS(b,L ) (Definition 12) and CE(b,L ) (Definition 13). We will first argue that
the sum-check verifier in step 2 passes. Then, we will argue that the evaluation
claim check in step 4 passes. Finally, we will argue that output tuples belong to
CE(b,L) K+k.
By the definition of relations CCS(b,L ) (Definition 12) and CE(b,L ) (Defini-
tion 13), we must have that (Item 1), (Item 2), and (Item 3) from Lemma 7 hold.
Therefore, we must have that
T(C) = P
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm Q(⃗ x, ⃗A, C).
Thus, for any choice of challengesα∈K logm andγ∈Kchosen in step 1,
T(γ) = P
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm Q(⃗ x, α, γ).
45

Thus, by the completeness of the sum-check protocol (Definition 6), we must
have that the sum-check verifier (step 2) always passes.
By step 3 and Remark 2, we must have that
ct(y′
i,j) =M jzi
∼ (r′)
for alli∈[K+k] andj∈[t]. SinceM 1 =I n, we must have that
ct(y′
i,1) =z∼
i(r′)
for alli∈[K+k]. Finally, by Remark 2, we must have that
cf
 
y′
i,j

ℓ =cf
  ¯Mjzi

ℓ
∼
(r′)
for all i∈ [K + 1, K + k], j∈ [t], ℓ∈ [d]. By definition of Q( ⃗X) in step 2, we must
have that
Q(r′) =eq(r ′, α)·

F +γ K ·N

+γ 2K+k ·E
for values F,N,E derived in step 4. Thus, the verifier check in step 4 passes.
Observe that Π CCS outputs exactly the original structure s, commitments ( ci
)i∈[K+k], vectors (zi)i∈[K+k], and instances (xi)i∈[K+k]. Thus, by the definition of
CCS(b,L ), we must have immediately that every condition in CE(b,L ) is satisfied
for all theK+ktuples, except that
∀i∈[K+k], j∈[t], y ′
i,j = ¯Mjzi
∼
(r′).
However, this is exactly what is computed by the honest prover in step 3.
Therefore, the output tuples do belong toCE(b,L) K+k as required.
Public coin.The sum-check protocol itself is a public-coin protocol. The remain-
ing randomness from the verifier are the challenges α∈K logm , γ∈K , which are
sampled uniformly at random and sent to the prover.
We prove conditions (i) and (ii) of weak interactive reductions (Definition 9).
Proof.
Proof of (i)By construction, the verifier trivially sets the commitments in
the output instance u2 to be the original commitments ( ci)i∈[K+k] from the
input instance u1. Hence, for repeated executions with respect to the same
input instance u1 with output instances u2, u′
2, the commitments in these output
instances must be the same.
Proof of (ii)Consider an arbitrary expected polynomial-time adversary ( A,P ∗),
such that the relaxed success probability of the adversary ϵ′(A,P ∗) ≥ 1/poly(λ)
and
Pr


w2, w′
2 ̸=⊥
∧
w2 ̸=w ′
2

pp←Gen(1 λ)
(s, u1,st)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
(u2, w2)← ⟨P ∗,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st)
(u′
2, w′
2)← ⟨P ∗,V⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st)


≤negl(λ) (10)
46

then we will show that there exists an expected polynomial-time extractor E
such that
Pr

(pp,s, u 1, w1)∈ R 1

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s, u1,st)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
w1 ← E(pp,s, u 1,st)

 ≥ϵ ′(A,P ∗)−negl(λ).
Namely, the following extractorE,
E(pp,s, u 1,st)→w 1 :
1. (pk,vk)← K(pp,s).
2. Assignresult:=⊥.
3. Whileresult=⊥:
–Simulateresult← ⟨P ∗
1 ,V 1⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st ∗)
–Ifresult̸=⊥
•Parse (u 2, w2)←result.
•If (pp,s, u 2, w2)̸∈ R ′
2, then setresult=⊥.
4. Simulateresult ′ ← ⟨P ∗
1 ,V 1⟩((pk,vk), u 1,st ∗)
5. Ifresult ′ ̸=⊥:
–Parse (u ′
2, w′
2)←result ′.
–If (pp,s, u ′
2, w′
2)̸∈ R ′
2, then setresult ′ =⊥.
6. Ifresult ′ =⊥, then output⊥.
7. Parse (u 2, w2)←resultand (u ′
2, w′
2)←result ′.
8. Ifw 2 ̸=w ′
2, then output⊥.
9. Parse (z 1, . . . , z K , z K+1 , . . . , z K+k)←w 2.
10. For alli∈[K], assignw CCS
i ←z i[nF,in: ].
11. Outputw 1 := (wCCS
1 , . . . , w CCS
K , z K+1 , . . . , z K+k).
Extractor runtime.We will show that the extractor E makes at most 1 +
1/ϵ′(A,P ∗) calls to P ∗ in expectation. Since ϵ′(A,P ∗) ≥ 1/poly(λ), we have
that the extractor makes at most a polynomial number of calls to P ∗ in ex-
pectation. Hence, since K and V1 run in poly(λ) time, we have that overall the
extractor runs in expected polynomial-time.
By construction, the while loop (Item 3) terminates when the adversary
(A,P ∗) succeeds. Since the relaxed success probability is ϵ′(A,P ∗), the while loop
executes 1/ϵ′(A,P ∗) times in expectation. This implies the while loop performs
1/ϵ′(A,P ∗) calls toP ∗ in expectation. Finally, Item 4 performs one call toP ∗.
Extractor success probability.First, we will show
Pr


result′ ̸=⊥
∧
w2 =w ′
2

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s, u1,st)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
w1 ← E(pp,s, u 1,st)

 ≥ϵ ′(A,P ∗)−negl(λ).(11)
47

Item 5 exactly checks that the simulated adversary in Item 4 succeeds. Thus, the
event that result′ ̸= ⊥ occurs with probability ϵ′(A,P ∗). Assume that the event
result′ ̸= ⊥ occurs. By (10), w2 ̸= w′
2 with at most negl(λ) probability. Thus, all
together, we have (11) holds.
Assume that the event result′ ̸= ⊥ ∧w 2 = w′
2 occurs, which implies the extractor
outputs a witness w1 := (wCCS
1 , . . . , w CCS
K , z K+1, . . . , z K+k) ̸= ⊥ (as the extrac-
tor passes the checks in Item 6 and Item 8). We will show that (pp, s, u1, w1) ̸∈ R 1
with probabilty at mostnegl(λ). Hence,
Pr

(pp,s, u 1, w1)∈ R 1

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s, u1,st)← A(pp)
(pk,vk)← K(pp,s)
w1 ← E(pp,s, u 1,st)


≥
 
ϵ′(A,P ∗)−negl(λ)

−negl(λ) =ϵ ′(A,P ∗)−negl(λ).
Since result′ ̸= ⊥, by construction (Item 5), we must have ( pp, s, u′
2, w′
2) ∈ R ′
2
and during the simulation ⟨P ∗
1 ,V 1⟩((pk,vk ), u1,st ∗) in Item 4, the verifier V1 did
not abort. Namely, that the sum-check verifier in (step 2) did not abort and the
evaluation checks (step 4) were satisfied. By definition of R′
2 = CE(q/2,L )K+k,
we must know that for alli∈[K+k],
xi :=L in(zi) andc i :=L(z i).(12)
By the definition of Lin (Definition 14), Equation (12) also implies that for all
i∈[K+k], the firstn F,in entries ofz i are equal tox i (from input instanceu 1).
Assume that (pp, s, u1, w1) ̸∈ R 1. Recall that R1 := CCS(b,L )K ×CE (b,L )k.
By Equation (12), we know that all conditions in CCS(b,L ) and CE(b,L ), except
for the norm-bound ( ∥z∥∞ < b), evaluation (yj = ¯Mjz
∼
(r)), or CCS requirements
(f(M1z∼ , . . . , M tz∼ ) ∈ZS logm ), are satisfied. Thus, using notation from Lemma 7,
(pp,s, u 1, w1)̸∈ R 1 implies that either:
1. there exists ani∈[K],f

M1zi
∼ , . . . , M tzi
∼ 
̸∈ZS logm ,
2. OR there exists ani∈[K+k],∥z i∥∞ ≥b,
3. OR there exists ani∈[K+ 1, K+k], j∈[t],y i,j ̸= ¯Mjzi
∼
(r).
By Lemma 7, we must have
T(C)̸= P
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm Q(⃗ x, ⃗A, C).
Let’s focus on the second simulation of Π CCS in step 4. Note, that the ran-
domness used in the second simulation of the Π CCS (extractor step 4) is fresh
and independent of the first simulation of the Π CCS (extractor step 3). Since
(pp, s, u′
2, w′
2) ∈ R ′
2, we must have the the prover’s claimed evaluations in protocol
step 3 are true. Thus, by the construction of the verifier’s checks in protocol step
4, we must have that the sum-check evaluation claimv=Q(r ′) is true.
48

Recall that the witness from the first simulation, w2, agrees with the witness
from the second simulation, w′
2. Thus, in order for the sum-check verifier to have
passed in the second simulation, either the adversaryP ∗
– succeeded in the sum-check protocol, despite T (C) ̸=P
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm Q(⃗ x, ⃗A, C)
(in other words, violated the soundness of the sum-check protocol)
–OR the non-zero polynomial
P(C, ⃗A) :=T(C)− P
⃗ x∈{0,1}logm Q(⃗ x, ⃗A, C)
evaluated to zero on random point (γ, α)∈K 1+logm .
By the soundness error of the sum-check protocol (Definition 6), the first event
occurs with probability at most ϵSC := max(u, 2b + 1, 2) ·logm/|K| , where
u is the degree of f, b is the norm bound, 2 comes from Eval( ⃗X). By the
Schwartz–Zippel lemma, the second event occurs with probability at most ϵSZ :=
(2K + k) max(logm, ktd )/|K| . Thus, by union bound, ( pp, s, u1, w1) ̸∈ R 1 with
probability at mostnegl(λ) :=ϵ SC +ϵ SZ.
D.5 Proofs for Π RLC
Lemma 9. The interactive reductionΠ RLC : CE(b,L )K+k →CE (B,L )iscom-
pleteandpublic coin.
Proof.Completeness.By definition ofCE(b,L) (Definition 13), we must have
the input tuples exactly satisfy the conditions in Theorem 5. Thus, we have
that the output tuple satisfies all of the requirements of CE(B,L ), except for the
requirement that∥z∥ ∞ < B=b k.
However, we show that this bound follows from the expansion factor T of C
chosen in Definition 14:
∥z∥∞ =
Pk+K
i=1 ρizi

∞
≤Pk+K
i=1 ∥ρizi∥∞
≤Pk+K
i=1 T∥z i∥∞ ≤(k+K)T(b−1)< B
where the second inequality is from the expansion factor of C being T , the third
inequality is from the definition of CE(b,L ), which enforces a norm bound of b,
and the last inequality is by assumption (Definition 14). Hence, the output tuple
must belong toCE(B,L).
Public coin.The verifier’s randomness consists of challenges ρ1, . . . , ρk+K, which
are sampled uniformly at random fromCand sent to the prover.
We prove the conditions of strong interactive reductions (Definition 10).
Proof. Consider an arbitrary expected-polynomial time adversary ( A,P ∗) for
ΠRLC with success probability, ϵ(A,P ∗) ≥ 1/poly(λ). First, we can construct an
adversary and verification function for Theorem 10,
49

A(pp,s,u1,st)(⃗ c) :
1. Execute encoder (pk,vk)← K(pp,s).
2. Simulate (u 2, w2)← ⟨P ∗(pk, u1,st),V(vk, u 1)⟩with verifier randomness ⃗ c.
3. Outputw 2
V(pp,s,u1,st)(⃗ c, w2)→ {0,1}:
1. Execute encoder (pk,vk)← K(pp,s).
2. Simulate (u 2, )← ⟨P ∗(pk, u1,st),V(vk, u 1)⟩with verifier randomness ⃗ c.
3. Output accept if and only if (u 2, w2)∈CE(B,L).
Let E(pp,s,u1,st) be the corresponding extractor from Theorem 10. We define
E(pp, s, u1,st ) as the trivial algorithm that executes E(pp,s,u1,st) by simulating
calls to A(pp,s,u1,st). We construct an extractor for adversary ( A,P ∗) as follows:
E(pp,s, u 1,st) :
1.result←E(pp,s, u 1,st).
2. Ifu 1 =⊥orresult=⊥, output⊥.
3. Parse ( ⃗ c, w′),( ⃗ c1, w′
1), . . .(⃗ cK+k , w′
K+k)←result.
4. Parsez←w ′ andρ 1, . . . , ρK+k ← ⃗ c.
5. Fori∈[K+k],
(a) Parsez (i) ←w ′
i andρ (i)
1 , . . . , ρ(i)
K+k ← ⃗ ci.
(b) Assignz i ←
 
ρi −ρ (i)
i
−1
·(z−z (i)).
6. Parse (c i, x i, r,{y i,j}j∈[t])i∈[K+k] ←u 1.
7. Outputw 1 := (zi)i∈[K+k] if and only if
 
s;c i, xi, r,{y i,j}j∈[t];z i

i∈[K+k] ∈CE(q/2,L) K+k
Extractor runtime.By Theorem 10, we are guaranteed E(pp,s,u1,st) makes in
expectation at most ( K + k) + 1 calls to A(pp,s,u1,st). Hence, our overall extractor
Eruns in expected polynomial time.
Extractor success probability.By Theorem 10, we are guaranteed that E(pp, s, u1,
st) outputs (K+k) + 1 pairs ( ⃗ c, w′),( ⃗ c1, w′
1), . . .(⃗ cK+k , w′
K+k) such that
–V (pp,s,u1,st)(⃗ c, w′) = 1,
–for alli∈[K+k],V( ⃗ ci, w′
i) = 1, and
–( ⃗ c, ⃗ c1, . . . ,⃗ cK+k)∈SS(C, K+k)
with probability ϵV(pp,s,u1 ,st)(A(pp,s, u1,st))− (K+k)+1
|C| . Since A(pp,s,u1,st) and V(pp,s,u1,st)
simulate the interaction between P ∗ and V and checks if the output pair ( u2, w2)
belongs toCE(B,L), we must have that
ϵV(pp,s,u1 ,st)(A(pp,s,u1,st))− (K+k) + 1
|C| =ϵ(A,P ∗)− (K+k) + 1
|C| .(13)
50

Assume that this event above occurs. Since V(pp,s,u1,st)(⃗ c, w′) = 1 and V(pp,s,u1,st)
executes ΠRLC’s V and outputs accept if and only if ( u2, w2) ∈CE (B,L ), we must
have forx:= PK+k
i=1 ρixi that

s;
c:= PK+k
i=1 ρici,
x, r,n
yj :=PK+k
i=1 ρiyi,j
o
j∈[t]
;z

 ∈CE(B,L) (14)
where (ci, xi, r,{y i,j}j)i are the instance elements in u1 (parsed in step 6) and
z←w ′ and (ρi)i ← ⃗ care the elements parsed in step 4.
For all i∈ [K+k ], we will make a similar argument to the one directly above.
Namely, sinceV( ⃗ ci, w′
i) = 1, we must have forx (i) :=PK+k
i=1 ρ(i)
i xi that

s;
c(i) :=PK+k
i=1 ρ(i)
i ci,
x(i), r,n
y(i)
j :=PK+k
i=1 ρ(i)
i yi,j
o
j∈[t]
;z (i)

 ∈CE(B,L) (15)
where (ci, xi, r,{y i,j}j)i are in u1 and z(i) ←w ′
i and (ρ(i)
j )j ← ⃗ ci are the elements
parsed in step 5a. By definition ofCE(B,L) (Definition 13), we must have
c=L(z), c (i) =L(z (i)),x=L in(z),x (i) =L in(x(i)) (16)
Since (⃗ c, ⃗ c1, . . . ,⃗ cK+k)∈SS(C, K+k), we must have for alli∈[K+k] that
(ρ1, . . . , ρK+k)≡ i (ρ(i)
1 , . . . , ρ(i)
K+k) (17)
which means the challenges differ only on index i. By definition of strong sampling
set (Definition 17), we must have (ρ i −ρ (i)
i ) is invertible for alli∈[K+k].
Thus, by Equation (16) and Equation (17), we have for alli∈[K+k],
c−c (i) =L(z)− L(z (i))
x−x (i) =L in(z)− L in(z(i))
PK+k
i=1 ρici −PK+k
i=1 ρ(i)
i ci =L(z)− L
 
z(i)
,
PK+k
i=1 ρixi −PK+k
i=1 ρ(i)
i xi =L in(z)− L in
 
z(i)
(18)
 
ρi −ρ (i)
i

·c i =L(z)− L
 
z(i)
,
 
ρi −ρ (i)
i

·x i =L in(z)− L in
 
z(i)
(19)
ci =L
 
ρi −ρ (i)
i
−1
·
 
z−z (i)
,
xi =L in
 
ρi −ρ (i)
i
−1
·
 
z−z (i)
(20)
51

ci =L(z i),x i =L in(zi) (21)
where equation (18) follows from (14), (15), and Equation (16). Equation (19)
follows from the equivalence in Equation (17). Equation (20) follows from L,L in
being R-module homomorphisms and C being a strong sampling set (Definition 17)
which because ρi ̸= ρ(i)
i (guaranteed by (17)) means ρi −ρ (i)
i is invertible.
Equation (21) is by construction (step 5b).
We make a similar argument for the evaluations. In particular, by the definition
of CE(B,L ) (Definition 13), Equation (14), and Equation (15), we must have
that
yj := ¯Mjz
∼
(r), y (i)
j := ¯Mjz(i)
∼
(r) (22)
Thus, we must have for alli∈[K+k] andj∈[t],
yj −y (i)
j = ¯Mjz
∼
(r)− ¯Mjz(i)
∼
(r) (23)
PK+k
i=1 ρiyi,j −PK+k
i=1 ρ(i)
i yi,j = ¯Mj(z−z (i))
∼
(r) (24)
 
ρi −ρ (i)
i

·y i,j = ¯Mj(z−z (i))
∼
(r) (25)
yi,j = ¯Mj

(ρi −ρ (i)
i )−1 ·(z−z (i))
∼
(r) (26)
= ¯Mjzi
∼
(r) (27)
where Equation (23) follows from Equation (22), Equation (24) follows from
Equation (14) and Equation (15) and the linearity of multilinear evaluation,
Equation (25) follows from the equivalence (17), and (26) follows from C being a
strong sampling set (Definition 17) which because ρi ̸= ρ(i)
i (guaranteed by (17))
meansρ i −ρ (i)
i is invertible.
Therefore, Equation (13), by Equation (20), and Equation (26), we must have
with probability ϵ(A,P ∗) − ((K + k) + 1)/|C|, the extractor outputs witness
elementsz 1, . . . , zK+k such that
 
s;c i, xi, r,{y i,j}j∈[t];z i

i∈[K+k] ∈CE(q/2,L) K+k ,
for the trivial norm bound ofq/2, as any element inFsatisfies this bound.
Now, assume thatA:= (B,B ′) such that
Pr


u1, u′
1 ̸=⊥
⇓
ϕ(u1) =ϕ(u ′
1)

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s,st ∗)← B(pp)
(u1,st)← B ′(st∗)
(u′
1,st ′)← B ′(st∗)

 = 1 (28)
52

We will show that
Pr


w1, w′
1 ̸=⊥
∧w 1 ̸=w ′
1

pp← G(1 λ,sz)
(s,st ∗)← B(pp)
(u1,st)← B ′(st∗)
w1 ← E(pp,s, u 1,st)
(u′
1,st ′)← B ′(st∗)
w′
1 ← E(pp,s, u ′
1,st ′)


≤negl(λ) (29)
Assume that the event w1, w′
1 ̸= ⊥ ∧w 1 ̸= w′
1 occurs. Since w1, w′
1 ̸= ⊥, we
have thatu 1, u′
1 ̸=⊥(otherwise, the extractorEwould have outputted⊥).
1. By Equation (28), we must have that ϕ(u1) = ϕ(u′
1), which guarantees the
instances share identical commitments (c i)i∈[K+k].
2. Define (zi)i∈[K+k] = w1 and (z′
i)i∈[K+k] = w′
1. Then, w1 ̸= w′
1 implies that
there exist ani∈[K+k] such thatz i ̸=z ′
i.
During the execution of E(pp, s, u1,st ), the call to algorithm E(pp, s, u1,st ) pro-
duces elements ρi, ρ(i)
i , z, z(i). Similarly, during the execution of E(pp, s′, u′
1,st ′),
the call to algorithm E(pp, s′, u′
1,st ′) produces elements ρ′
i, ρ(i)′
i , z′, z(i)′. These
elements satisfy the following
zi ̸=z ′
i ⇐ ⇒
 
ρi −ρ (i)
i
−1
·(z−z (i))̸=
 
ρ′
i −ρ (i)′
i
−1
·(z ′ −z (i)′) (30)
∥z∥∞ < B,
z(i)

∞
< B,∥z ′∥∞ < B,
z(i)′

∞
< B(31)
Equation (30) follows from (Item 2) and by the construction of E. Equation (31)
follows from the construction of E, which only outputs w1, w′
1 ̸= ⊥ when the inter-
nal extractor E (from Theorem 10) succeeds. In particular, the internal extractor
E succeeding guarantees that the verification function V(pp,s,u1,st) accepts. This
verification function checks that output tuples (corresponding to Equation (14)
and Equation (15)) belong to CE(B,L ), which exactly checks the require norm
bound on vectorsz, z (i), z′, z(i)′. By Item 1 and (20), we must have
ci =L
 
ρi −ρ (i)
i
−1
·
 
z−z (i)
=L
 
ρ′
i −ρ (i)′
i
−1
·
 
z′ −z (i)′
Thus, sinceLis aR-module homomorphism, we have
 
ρi −ρ (i)
i

·c i =L
 
z−z (i)
∧
 
ρ′
i −ρ (i)′
i

·c i =L
 
z′ −z (i)′
(32)
All together, by (30), (31), and (32), we have that ( ci, ∆ 1 = ρi −ρ (i)
i , ∆ 2 =
ρ′
i −ρ (i)′
i , z 1 = z−z (i), z 2 = z′ −z (i)′) is a (2 B,C )-relaxed binding collision
(Definition 4).
By assumption (Definition 14), L is a ring commitment scheme that satisfies
(2B,C )-relaxed binding. Thus, the probability of the original event (Equation (29))
must be less than or equal to negl(λ). Otherwise, we could construct a correspond-
ing relaxed-binding adversary which executes the extractor E twice to retrieve
the corresponding elements for the 2 B-relaxed binding collision with probability
ϵrlx(B,C)≥negl(λ).
53

D.6 Π DEC is a Reduction of Knowledge (Theorem 7)
Proof. Completeness:First, we show that the verifier’s checks in step 2 pass.
Then, we will show that the output tuples belongs toCE(b,L) k.
By the definition of CE(B,L ), we must have that ∥z∥∞ < B = bk (Definition 14).
Thus, by definition ofsplit b, we must havez= Pk
i=1bi−1 ·z i. Therefore,
z= Pk
i=1bi−1 ·z i
z= Pk
i=1bi−1 ·z i (33)
L(z) =L
 Pk
i=1bi−1 ·z i

,
c= Pk
i=1b i−1 · L(zi),(34)
c= Pk
i=1b i−1 ·c i,(35)
Equation (34) follows directly from L being a R-module homomorphism. Equa-
tion (35) follows by construction of ci ← L(zi) in step 1. Starting from equation
(33), we must have for allj∈[t],
z= Pk
i=1b i−1 ·z i
¯Mjz= Pk
i=1b i−1 · ¯Mjzi
¯Mjz
∼
(r) =Pk
i=1b i−1 · ¯Mjzi
∼
(r)
¯Mjz
∼
(r) =Pk
i=1b i−1 · ¯Mjz
∼
(r) (36)
yj =Pk
i=1b i−1 ·y i,j (37)
Equation (36) follows directly from the linearity of multilinear evaluation. Equa-
tion (37) follows by definition of CE(B,L ) and by construction yi,j ← ¯Mjzi
∼
(r)
in step 1. Thus, by (35) and (37), we have the verifier’s checks must pass.
Next, we show that the output tuple, (s; {ci, x i, r,{y i,j}j∈[t]}i∈[k]; {zi}i∈[k]),
belongs to CE(b,L )k. By the definition of splitb, we must have that ∥zi∥∞ < b for
all i∈ [k]. Since Lin is the trivial R-module homomorphism which projects the
first nR,in columns, we must have that, by construction in step 2, that xi = Lin(zi)
for all i∈ [k]. Thus, in total, we must have, along with the construction of 
ci,{y i,j}j∈[t]

i∈[k] in step 1, that the output tuples belong toCE(b,L) k.
Public coin:The verifier uses no randomness in this protocol. Thus, the protocol
is trivially public coin.
Knowledge soundness:Consider an arbitrary expected-polynomial time ad-
versary ( A,P ∗) for Π DEC with success probability, ϵ(A,P ∗) ≥ 1/poly(λ). We
construct an extractorEfor Π DEC as follows,
54

E
 
pp,s, u 1 :=
 
c, x, r,(y j)j∈[t]

,st

:
1. Execute encoder (pk,vk)← K(pp,s).
2. Simulate (u 2, w2)← ⟨P ∗(pk, u1,st),V(vk, u 1)⟩.
3. Ifu 2 =⊥, output⊥.
4. Parse (z 1, . . . , zk)←w 2.
5. Outputw 1 :=Pk
i=1 b i−1zi.
Extractor runtime: The extractor runs in expected polynomial time, since it
simulates only one execution between the adversary P ∗ and verifier V, which
both run in expected polynomial time.
Extractor success probability: Assume that the simulated adversary ( A,P ∗)
succeeds in convincing the verifier V and the parties jointly output (s , u2, w2) ∈
CE(b,L) k; note that this occurs with probabilityϵ(A,P ∗). Define
(ci, x i, r,(y i,j)j∈[t])i∈[k] :=u 2 andz 1, . . . , zk :=w 2.
By the definition ofCE(b,L), we have for alli∈[k] andj∈[t],
ci :=L(z i),x i :=L in(zi),∥z i∥∞ < bandy i,j := ¯Mjzi
∼
(r) (38)
Since the adversary convinces the verifier, we must have that for allj∈[t],
c= Pk
i=1b i−1 ·c i andy j =Pk
i=1b i−1 ·y i,j (39)
By construction in step 2 (i.e. definition of splitb), we also must have x =Pk
i=1b i−1 ·x i. By defining z :=Pk
i=1b i−1zi, observe that x =Pk
i=1b i−1 ·x i,
(38), and (39) satisfy the remaining conditions stated in Theorem 5. We must
have c = L(z), x = Lin(z), and for all j∈ [t], yj := ¯Mjz
∼
(r). Since in (38), we
have for all i∈ [k], ∥zi∥∞ < b , we must also have ∥z∥∞ < B = bk. These are
exactly the conditions for (s; u1 := {c, x, r,{y j}j∈[t]}; w1 := z) to belong
to CE(B,L ). Therefore, since the adversary succeeds with probability ϵ(A,P ∗),
we must have by construction, that E outputs a satisfying witness such that
(s, u1, w1)∈CE(B,L) with probabilityϵ(A,P ∗).
D.7 Finding choices of cyclotomic and fields
# [LS18, eprint 2017-523] pg 6
# m is the cyclotomic polynomial index
def tau(m):
return m if (m % 2) != 0 else m / 2
# [LS18, eprint 2017-523] Thm 1.1, pg 4
# m is the cyclotomic polynomial index
# p is the prime
# z is any divisor of m
55

# This tests for the condition for thm 1.1 to hold
def thm1_1_cond(m, p, z):
cond1 = (p % z) == 1
cond2 = Mod(p,m).multiplicative_order() == m/z
return cond1 and cond2
# [LS18, eprint 2017-523] Thm 1.1, pg 4
# p is the prime
# z is any divisor of m
# lInf bound for elements to be invertible
# given that m,p,z satisfy thm 1.1 cond
def thm1_1_inv_bound(p, z):
return (1/s1(z)*p^(1/euler_phi(z))).n()
def thm1_1_num_factors(z):
return euler_phi(z)
# Output divisors of m
def divisors(m):
zs = list()
for i in range(1,m+1):
if m % i == 0:
zs.append(i)
return zs
# [LS18, eprint 2017-523] pg 6, pg 9
# We only consider prime power cyclotomics
# m is the cyclotomic polynomial index
def s1(m):
return sqrt(tau(m))
# checks if cyclotomic index m is power of two
def is_pow2(m):
return sum(m.digits(2)) == 1
# [MR09] lattice-based cryptography
# makes sure characteristic does not lead
# to trivial bound
def non_trivial(q, n, d, delta):
return (q/2).n() >= (2^(2 * sqrt( n*d * log(q,2) * log(delta, 2)))).n()
# [AL21] eprint Prop 2. 2021/202
# for all u,v in R, |u*v| / |v| <= gamma*|u|
# outputs T = gamma * |u|
# assumes we are only testing prime powers
def expansion_factor(m, norm):
if is_pow2(m):
return euler_phi(m) * norm
else:
return 2 * euler_phi(m) * norm
56

# p is prime
# max_idx is max cyclotomic index
# outputs list of (m, z)
def candidates(p, min_idx=10, max_idx=200):
# prime powers
possible_indices = [i for i in range(min_idx, max_idx) if len(factor(i)) == 1]
c = list()
for m in possible_indices:
zs = divisors(m)
for z in zs:
if thm1_1_cond(m, p, z):
c.append((Integer(m), Integer(z)))
return c
def pre_filter(q, cyclotomic_index, z, n, m, chals):
chals_norm = max({abs(c) for c in chals})
chals_max_diff = chals[-1] - chals[0]
delta = 1.0045 # root hermite factor, chosen from [ESSLL19] eprint 2018/773
phi = cyclotomic_polynomial(cyclotomic_index) # index cyclotomic polynomial
d = phi.degree() # degree of cyclotomic
# return non_trivial(q, n, d, delta) and chals_max_diff < thm1_1_inv_bound(q, z) and log(len(chals)^d,2).n() >= 120
# We remove non_trivial(...) because we use the lattice estimator for hardness
return chals_max_diff < thm1_1_inv_bound(q, z) and log(len(chals)^d,2).n() >= 120
def info(q, cyclotomic_index, z, n, m, chals):
chals_norm = max({abs(c) for c in chals})
chals_max_diff = chals[-1] - chals[0]
delta = 1.0045 # root hermite factor, chosen from [ESSLL19] eprint 2018/773
phi = cyclotomic_polynomial(cyclotomic_index) # index cyclotomic polynomial
d = phi.degree() # degree of cyclotomic
T = expansion_factor(cyclotomic_index, chals_norm)
# Bounds for MSIS to be hard
# [MR09] lattice-based cryptography pg 6
# [CMNW24] pg 38 eprint 2024/281
MSIS_B_l2_bound = min(q, 2^(2 * sqrt( n*d * log(q,2) * log(delta, 2))))
MSIS_B_linf_bound = MSIS_B_l2_bound / sqrt(m*d)
# We need MSIS infinity bound 8TB to be hard
B = MSIS_B_linf_bound / (8*T)
print("####")
print("Cyclotomic idx:", cyclotomic_index)
print("Cyclotomic Poly:", phi)
print("z:", z)
#print("Prime is non-trivial?", non_trivial(q, n, d, delta))
print("Csmall norm is small enough?", chals_max_diff < thm1_1_inv_bound(q, z))
print("Csmall large enough?", log(len(chals)^d,2).n() >= 120)
57

print("Degree of Cyclotomic:", d)
# print("log(B):", log(B, 2).n())
print("Expansion Factor T:", T)
print("Invertible Norm bound:", thm1_1_inv_bound(q, z))
print("log(|C_Small|):", log(len(chals)^d,2).n())
print("Factors of Cyclotomic:", thm1_1_num_factors(z))
print()
def possible_settings(q, n, m, chals):
for (cyclotomic_index, z) in candidates(q):
if pre_filter(q, cyclotomic_index, z, n, m, chals):
info(q, cyclotomic_index, z, n, m, chals)
else:
delta = 1.0045
d = cyclotomic_polynomial(cyclotomic_index).degree()
print("[Does not satisfy security requirements] index: {}, degree: {}, z: {}, non_trivial: {}, log(|C_Small|): {}, Invertible Norm bound: {}".format(cyclotomic_index, d, z, non_trivial(q, n, d, delta), log(len(chals)^d,2).n(), thm1_1_inv_bound(q, z)))
# Primes:
GL = 2^64 - 2^32 + 1
AGL = GL - 32
print("###############################")
print("AGL ###############################")
print("###############################")
# MSIS settings
n = 13 # rows, kappa in latticefold
m = 2^26 # cols
# Small Challenge set
chals = [-1, 0, 1, 2]
possible_settings(AGL, n, m, chals)
print("###############################")
print("M61 ###############################")
print("###############################")
# MSIS settings
n = 16 # rows, kappa in latticefold
m = 2^22 # cols
# Small Challenge set
chals = [-2, -1, 0, 1, 2]
possible_settings(2^61-1, n, m, chals)
print("###############################")
print("GL ###############################")
print("###############################")
# MSIS settings
n = 16 # rows, kappa in latticefold
m = 2^24 # cols
# Small Challenge set
chals = [-2, -1, 0, 1, 2]
possible_settings(GL, n, m, chals)
print("###############################")
58

D.8 Lattice Estimator Script
from estimator import *
Logging.set_level(Logging.LEVEL0)
M61 = 2^61 -1
GL = 2^64 - 2^32 +1
AGL = GL - 32
b = 2
n = 15
d = 64
k = 13
K = 26
B = b^k
m = 2^33 / d
T = 128
q = AGL
n_sis = n*d
m_sis = m*d
B_l2 = sqrt(m*d)*(8*T*B)
params = SIS.Parameters(n=n_sis, q=q, m=m_sis,length_bound=B_l2, norm=2)
_ = SIS.estimate(params)
print((K+k)*T*(b-1) < B)
n = 18
d = 54
k = 14
K = 61
B = b^k
m = 2^30 / d
T=216
q = GL
n_sis = n*d
m_sis = m*d
B_l2 = sqrt(m*d)*(8*T*B)
params = SIS.Parameters(n=n_sis, q=q, m=m_sis,length_bound=B_l2, norm=2)
_ = SIS.estimate(params)
print((K+k)*T*(b-1) < B)
n = 18
d = 54
k = 14
K = 61
59

B = b^k
m = 2^28 / d
T = 216
q = M61
n_sis = n*d
m_sis = m*d
B_l2 = sqrt(m*d)*(8*T*B)
params = SIS.Parameters(n=n_sis, q=q, m=m_sis,length_bound=B_l2, norm=2)
_ = SIS.estimate(params)
print((K+k)*T*(b-1) < B)
60